Office of Procurement and Contracts  Phone: 785-296-2376 
900 SW Jackson St., Room 1001 North  Fax: 785-296-7240 
Topeka, KS 66612 www.admin.ks.gov/procurement-and-contracts 
  
Adam C. Proffitt, Secretary Laura Kelly, Governor 
Todd Herman, Director 
 
 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) 
 
 
 
Bid Event Number:    EVT0010848 
 
Date Posted:   June 05, 2026 
 
Closing Date:   July 28, 2026, 2:00 PM CST 
 
Procurement Officer:   Tyrone Gasper 
Telephone:   785-296-3126 
E-Mail Address:   Tyrone.Gasper@ks.gov  
 
Web Address:   http://admin.ks.gov/offices/procurement-and-contracts/ 
 
Agency:   Kansas Department of Health and Environment 
 
Item:   Web-Based Preparedness Application 
 
Period of Contract:   Date of final signature through three (3) years  
(With the option to renew for two (2) additional twelve-month periods) 
 
Bid Guarantee:   No monetary bid guarantee required. 
This RFP is contingent upon the availability of state or federal funds and may be terminated by 
thirty (30) day advance written notice by the Director of Purchases. 
 
This Bid Event was recently posted to the Procurement and Contracts Internet website.   
The document can be downloaded by going to the following website: 
  
http://admin.ks.gov/offices/procurement-and-contracts/  
  
It shall be the bidder's responsibility to monitor this website on a regular basis for any changes/amendments.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 2 
 
SIGNATURE SHEET 
 
Item: Web-Based Preparedness Application 
Agency: Kansas Department of Health and Environment 
Closing Date: July 28, 2026, 2:00 PM CST 
 
By submission of a bid and the signatures affixed thereto, the bidder certifies all products and services 
proposed in the bid meet or exceed all requirements of this specification as set forth in the request and that all 
exceptions are clearly identified. 
 
Legal Name of Person, Firm or Corporation  
 
Mailing Address   City & State     Zip    
 
Toll Free Telephone    Local    
 
Cell Phone    Fax Number    
  
Tax Number    
 
CAUTION:  If your tax number is the same as your Social Security Number (SSN), you must leave this 
line blank.  DO NOT enter your SSN on this signature sheet.  If your SSN is required to process a 
contract award, including any tax clearance requirements, you will be contacted by an authorized 
representative of the Office of Procurement and Contracts at a later date. 
 
E-Mail    
 
Signature   Date   
 
Typed Name    Title    
 
In the event the contact for the bidding process is different from above, indicate contact information below. 
 
Bidding Process Contact Name   
 
Mailing Address    City & State   Zip   
 
Toll Free Telephone    Local    
 
Cell Phone    Fax Number    
 
E-Mail    
 
If awarded a contract and purchase orders are to be directed to an address other than above, indicate 
mailing address and telephone number below. 
 
Award Contact Name    
 
Mailing Address    City & State   Zip   
 
Toll Free Telephone    Local    
 
Cell Phone    Fax Number    
 
E-Mail    
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 3 
 
VENDOR RESPONSE CHECKLIST 
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) 
 
The following checklist is provided to assist bidders in ensuring all requirements are met and all required submissions are 
included with the bid.  Bidders are instructed to utilize this list for their own convenience to ensure compliance.  
 
  Completed Bidder Registration submitted prior to bid submission (One time)  
 
       Invitation to participate received from Procurement Officer prior to bid submission (Each bid)  
 
Technical Proposal (See Section 2.1)  
 
  Signature Sheet 
  Tax Clearance Certificate 
  Immigration Reform and Control Certification 
  Sexual Harassment policy 
  Boycott of Israel 
  Certificate of Procurement (IT) 
  Electronic Payment Requirement with Hardship Exception Form 
  Vendor Preparedness for WCAG 2.1 Level AA 
  Transmittal Letter   
  Bidder Information        
  Qualifications 
  Experience 
  Timeline 
  Methodology 
  References 
  Bidder Contracts/Subcontractor information, if applicable 
  Technical Literature, address Specifications 
  Completed and signed Event Details document 
  Sign Any Amendments or Supplemental forms provided     
  Exceptions to RFP noted, if applicable   
 
Cost Proposal (See Section 2.1) 
 
  Cost Sheet 
  Completed and signed Event Details document 
 
Bids must be received in our office prior to 2:00PM CST on the closing date to be considered following the 
instructions in Section 2 Bid Submissions of the solicitation. Bids must be marked as follows: 
 
 Department of Administration 
 Procurement and Contracts 
 Proposal # EVT0010848 
Closing Date: July 28, 2026 
 900 SW Jackson, Room 1001 North 
Topeka, KS 66612-1286 
 
 
 
NOTE:   In order to properly and completely respond to this Request for Proposal, bidders must carefully review 
all sections and respond as required. 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 4 
 
 
 
TAX CLEARANCE INSTRUCTIONS 
 
A “Tax Clearance” is a comprehensive tax account review to determine and ensure that the account is compliant with all 
primary Kansas Tax Laws administered by the Kansas Department of Revenue (KDOR) Director of Taxation. Information 
pertaining to a Tax Clearance is subject to change(s), which may arise as a result of a State Tax Audit, Federal Revenue 
Agent Report, or other lawful adjustment(s). 
 
To obtain a Tax Clearance Certificate, you must: 
• Go to http://www.ksrevenue.org/taxclearance.html  to request a Tax Clearance Certificate 
• Return to the website the following working day to see if KDOR will issue the certificate  
• If issued an official certificate, print it and attach it to your signed renewal document  
• If denied a certificate, engage KDOR in a discussion about why a certificate wasn’t issued  
 
Per KSA 75-3740-(c), the Director of Purchases may reject the bid of any bidder who is in arrears on taxes due the State 
of Kansas.  The Secretary of the Kansas Department of Revenue is authorized to exchange such information with the 
Director of Purchases as is necessary to determine a bidder’s tax clearance status, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law prohibiting disclosure of the contents of taxpayer records or information.  
 
Please Note:  Individual and business applications are available.  For applications entered prior to 5:00 PM Monday 
through Friday, results typically will be available the following business day.  Tax clearance requests may be denied if the 
request includes incomplete or incorrect information. 
 
Please Note:  You will need to sign back into the KDOR website to view and print the official tax clearance 
certificate. 
 
Information about Tax Registration can be found at the following website: 
http://www.ksrevenue.org/busregistration.html  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 5 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATION REGARDING 
IMMIGRATION REFORM & CONTROL 
 
 
 All Contractors are expected to comply with the Immigration and Reform Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), as may be 
amended from time to time.  This Act, with certain limitations, requires the verification of the employment status of all 
individuals who were hired on or after November 6, 1986, by the Contractor as well as any subcontractor or sub-
subcontractor.  The usual method of verification is through the Employment Verification (I -9) Form.  With the submission 
of this bid, the Contractor hereby certifies without exception that Contractor has complied with all federal and state laws 
relating to immigration and reform.  Any misrepresentation in this regard or any employment of persons not authorized to 
work in the United States constitutes a material breach and, at the State’s option, may subject the contract to termination 
and any applicable damages.   
 
 Contractor certifies that, should it be awarded a contract by the State, Contractor will comply with all applicable 
federal and state laws, standards, orders and regulations affecting a person’s participation and eligibility in any program or 
activity undertaken by the Contractor pursuant to this contract.  Contractor further certifies that it will remain in compliance 
throughout the term of the contract.   
 
 At the State’s request, Contractor is expected to produce to the State any documentation or other such evidence 
to verify Contractor’s compliance with any provision, duty, certification, or the like under the contract.   
 
 Contractor agrees to include this Certification in contracts between itself and any subcontractors in connection 
with the services performed under this contract. 
 
 
 
_____________________________________________ _       ________________________  
Signature, Title of Contractor       Date 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 6 
 
 
Policy Regarding Sexual Harassment 
 
Whereas sexual harassment and retaliation for sexual harassment claims are unacceptable forms of discrimination that 
must not be tolerated in the workplace; and 
 
Whereas state and federal employment discrimination laws prohibit sexual harassment and retaliation in the workplace; 
and 
 
Whereas officers and employees of the State of Kansas are entitled to working conditions that are free from sexual 
harassment, discrimination, and retaliation; and 
 
Whereas the Governor and all officers and employees of the State of Kansas should seek to foster a culture that does not 
tolerate sexual harassment, retaliation, and unlawful discrimination. 
 
Now Therefore, pursuant to the authority vested in me as Governor of the State of Kansas, I hereby order as follows:  
1. All Executive Branch department and agency heads shall have available and shall regularly review and update at 
least every three years or more frequently as necessary, their sexual harassment, discrimination, and retaliation 
policies.  Such policies shall include components for confidentiality and anonymous reporting, applicability to 
intern positions, and training policies. 
2. All Executive Branch department and agency heads shall ensure that their employees, interns, and contractors 
have been notified of the state’s policy against sexual harassment, discrimination, or retaliation, and shall further 
ensure that such persons are aware of the procedures for submitting a complaint of sexual harassment, 
discrimination, or retaliation, including an anonymous complaint. 
3. Executive Branch departments and agencies shall annually require training seminars regarding the policy against 
sexual harassment, discrimination, or retaliation.  All employees shall complete their initial training session 
pursuant to this order by the end of the current fiscal year. 
4. Within ninety (90) days of this order, all Executive Branch employees, interns, and contractors under the 
jurisdiction of the Office of the Governor shall be provided a written copy of the policy against sexual harassment, 
discrimination, and retaliation, and they shall execute a document agreeing and acknowledging that they are 
aware of and will comply with the policy against sexual harassment, discrimination, and retaliation.  
5. Matters involving any elected official, department or agency head, or any appointee of the Governor may be 
investigated by independent legal counsel. 
6. The Office of the Governor will require annual mandatory training seminars for all staff, employees, and interns in 
the office regarding the policy against sexual harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, and shall maintain a 
record of attendance. 
7. Allegations of sexual harassment, discrimination, or retaliation within the Office of the Governor will be 
investigated promptly, and violations of law or policy shall constitute grounds for disciplinary action, including 
dismissal. 
8. This Order is intended to supplement existing laws and regulations concerning sexual harassment and 
discrimination and shall not be interpreted to in any way diminish such laws and regulations.  The Order provides 
conduct requirements for covered persons and is not intended to create any new right or benefit enforceable 
against the State of Kansas. 
9. Persons seeking to report violations of this Order, or guidance regarding the application or interpretation of this 
Order, may contact the Office of the Governor regarding such matters. 
 
Agreement to Comply with the Policy Against Sexual Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation.  
I hereby acknowledge that I have received a copy of the State of Kansas Policy Against Sexual Harassment, 
Discrimination, and Retaliation established by Executive Order 18- 04 and agree to comply with the provisions of this 
policy. 
 
 
____________________________________   ___________________________________                                     
Signature and Date                                                       Printed Name  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 7 
 
CERTIFICATION OF COMPANY 
NOT CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN A BOYCOTT OF GOODS or SERVICES FROM ISRAEL  
 
 
In accordance with HB 2482, 2018 Legislative Session, the State of Kansas shall not enter into a contract with a Company 
to acquire or dispose of goods or services with an aggregate price of more than $100,000, unless such Company submits 
a written certification that such Company is not currently engaged in a boycott of goods or services from Israel that 
constitutes an integral part of business conducted or sought to be conducted with the State.  
 
 As a Contractor entering a contract with the State of Kansas, it is hereby certified that the Company listed below 
is not currently engaged in a boycott of Israel as set forth in HB 2482, 2018 Legislature.  
 
  
 
 
____________________________________________   ______________________ 
Signature, Title of Contractor      Date 
 
 
____________________________________________ 
Printed 
 
____________________________________________ 
Name of Company 
 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 8 
 
CERTIFICATION OF COMPANY NOT CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN 
THE PROCUREMENT OR OBTAINMENT OF CERTAIN EQUIPMENT, SERVICES, OR SYSTEMS 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Law 115-232, Section 889 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act of 
2019, “covered telecommunications equipment or services” is defined as: 
(1) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation (or any 
subsidiary or affiliate of such entities). 
(2) Video surveillance and telecommunications equipment produced by Hytera Communications Corporation, 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Company, and Dahua Technology Company (or any subsidiary or 
affiliate of such entities). 
(3) Telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by such entities or using such equipment. 
(4) Telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services produced or provided by an entity that the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the National Intelligence or the Director  of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes to be an entity owned or controlled by, or otherwise 
connected to, the government of a covered foreign country. 
WHEREAS, a “covered foreign country” means any of the following: (1) The People’s Republic of China, 
(2) The Russian Federation, or (3) any country that is a state sponsor of terrorism1. 
WHEREAS, foreign adversaries are increasingly creating and exploiting vulnerabilities in covered telecommunications  
equipment which store and communicate vast amounts of sensitive information and support infrastructure and 
emergency services, in order to commit malicious cyber-enabled actions; 
WHEREAS, the unrestricted acquisition or use in the State of Kansas of covered telecommunications equipment 
designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or 
direction of foreign adversaries augments the ability of foreign adversaries to create and exploit vulnerabilities in 
technological equipment, services, or systems; and 
WHEREAS, the State of Kansas has an interest in protecting itself against threats related to foreign adversary’s 
exploitation of vulnerabilities in covered telecommunications equipment.  
THEREFORE, Contractor certifies that it shall not provide or procure to the State of Kansas or any agency thereof any 
covered telecommunications equipment either in whole or in part of any product or during the commission of any 
service. 
FURTHERMORE, and notwithstanding any other contracts or agreements with Contractor, if Contractor has  violated, 
misrepresented, or otherwise fails to comply with this certification document as determined by the State, the State may 
terminate any contract without penalty with Contractor immediately. 
By signing the below, Contractor acknowledges and agrees to comply with the provisions of this policy. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
               Signature, Title                                    Date 
 
1 Designations of a “state sponsor of terrorism” may be found at the U.S. Department of State website.  
 https://www.state.gov/state-sponsors-of- 
terrorism/#:~:text=Currently%20there%20are%20four%20countries,)%2C%20Iran%2C%20and%20Syria.&text=For 
%20more%20details%20about%20State,in%20Country%20Reports%20on%20Terrorism 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 9 
 
Electronic Payment Requirement with Hardship Exception 
 
All payments due under this Agreement shall be made via electronic funds transfer (EFT) to the account designated by 
the receiving party. The State shall bear any fees associated with the transfer. Payment shall be deemed complete upon 
receipt by the receiving party’s financial institution. The receiving party agrees to complete the State’s DA -130, 
Authorization for Electronic Deposit of Supplier Payment, through a Docusign process within 14 days of the receipt of the 
electronic form. 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the receiving party determines that electronic payment would create a financial or 
operational hardship, the receiving party may request the State to make payment by alternative means. Such request 
must be submitted in writing and approved by the State, which shall not unreasonably withhold consent.  
Such request should be sent to: 
 
Kansas Department of Administration  
Procurement and Contracts  
900 SW Jackson, Room 1001 North  
Topeka, Kansas 66612-1286 
 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 10 
 
Vendor Preparedness for WCAG 2.1 Level AA Form 
  
1. Bid Event Number 
  
2. Vendor Name 
  
3. Email Address of individual filling out this form 
  
4. Are you providing to the State any of the following products, services, or deliverables under this contract? Select 
all that apply. 
• Software/application(s) 
• Mobile application(s) 
• Website(s) 
• Online training 
• Video conferencing/meetings and/or tools 
• Content or other materials which may include any of the following: text, images, sounds, videos, controls, 
animations, documents 
• Documents, including those in any of the following formats: PDFs, word processor file formats, presentation 
file formats, spreadsheet file formats 
• Content/Documents which may be posted on social media 
• Links to other third-party websites/applications 
• No 
• Other 
  
5. Who are the end users of the products, services, or deliverables selected above? Select all that apply.  
• State employees 
• Members of the public 
• Other third parties 
• Do not know 
  
6. Are each of the selected products, services, or deliverables WCAG 2.1 Level AA compliant today? (Y/N)  
  
7. Will each of the above products, services, or deliverables WCAG 2.1 Level AA be compliant by 4/26 /27? (Y/N) 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 11 
 
  
8. Identify the products, services, or deliverables that will not be WCAG 2.1 Level AA be compliant by 4/26 /27. 
Select all that apply. 
• Software/application(s) 
• Mobile application(s) 
• Website(s) 
• Online training 
• Video conferencing/meetings and/or tools 
• Content or other materials which may include any of the following: text, images, sounds, videos, controls, 
animations, documents 
• Documents, including those in any of the following formats: PDFs, word processor file formats, presentation 
file formats, spreadsheet file formats 
• Content/Documents which may be posted on social media 
• Links to other third-party websites/applications 
• No 
• Other 
  
9. Please provide a link to your Product Accessibility Template (PAT), also known as Voluntary Product Accessibility 
Template (VPAT). Type N/A if not applicable or available. 
  
  
10. Are you willing to sign a contract change notice affirming compliance or agreeing to become compliant by the 
deadline? (Y/N) 
 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 12 
 
1. Bidding Instructions 
1.1. Bid Event ID / Reference Number 
The Bid Event ID / RFP number, indicated in the header of this page, as well as on the first page of this 
proposal, has been assigned to this RFP and MUST be shown on all correspondence or other documents 
associated with this RFP and MUST be referred to in all verbal communications.  All inquiries, written or verbal, 
shall be directed only to the procurement officer reflected on Page 1 of this proposal.  There shall be no 
communication with any other State employee regarding this RFP except with designated state participants in 
attendance ONLY DURING: 
 
• Negotiations 
• Contract Signing 
• as otherwise specified in this RFP. 
 
Violations of this provision by bidder or state agency personnel may result in the rejection of the proposal.  
1.2. Questions/Addenda 
Questions requesting clarification of the bid event must be submitted in WRITING to the Procurement Officer 
prior to the close of business on June 26, 2026, to the following address: 
 
Tyrone Gasper 
Telephone:  785-296-3126 
Facsimile:  785-296-7240 
E-Mail Address:  Tyrone.Gasper@ks.gov  
 
Kansas Department of Administration 
Procurement and Contracts 
900 SW Jackson Street, Room 1001 North 
Topeka, KS  66612-1286 
 
Failure to notify the Procurement Officer of any conflicts or ambiguities in this bid event may result in items 
being resolved in the best interest of the State.  Any modification to this bid event shall be made in writing by 
addendum and mailed to all vendors who received the original request.  Only Written communications are 
binding. 
 
Answers to questions will be available in the form of an addendum on the Procurement and Contracts' website, 
http://admin.ks.gov/offices/procurement-and-contracts. 
 
It shall be the responsibility of all participating bidders to acquire any and all addenda and additional information 
as it is made available from the web site cited above. Vendors/Bidders not initially invited to participate in this 
Bid Event must notify the Procurement Officer (Event Contact) of their intent to bid at least 24 hours prior to the 
event's closing date/time. Bidders are required to check the website periodically for any additional information or 
instructions. 
1.3. Pre-Bid Conference 
No pre-bid conference is scheduled for this bid event. 
1.4. Negotiated Procurement 
This is a negotiated procurement pursuant to K.S.A. 75-37,102.  Final evaluation and award will be made by the 
Procurement Negotiation Committee (PNC) consisting of the following entities (or their designees):  
 
• Secretary of Department of Administration; 
• Director of Purchases, Department of Administration; and 
• Head of Using Agency 
1.5. Appearance Before Committee 
Any, all or no bidders may be required to appear before the PNC to explain the bidder's understanding and 
approach to the project and/or respond to questions from the PNC concerning the proposal; or, the PNC may 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 13 
 
award without conducting negotiations, based on the initial proposal.  The PNC reserves the right to request 
information from bidders as needed.  If information is requested, the PNC is not required to request the 
information of all bidders. 
 
Bidders selected to participate in negotiations may be given an opportunity to submit a revised technical and/or 
cost proposal/offer to the PNC, subject to a specified cut off time for submittal of revisions.   Meetings before 
the PNC are not subject to the Open Meetings Act.  Bidders are prohibited from electronically recording these 
meetings.  All information received prior to the cut off time will be considered part of the bidder's revised offer.  
 
No additional revisions shall be made after the specified cut off time unless requested by the PNC.  
1.6. Notices 
All notices, demands, requests, approvals, reports, instructions, consents or other communications (collectively 
"notices") that may be required or desired to be given by either party to the other shall be IN WRITING and 
addressed as follows: 
 
Kansas Department of Administration 
Procurement and Contracts 
900 SW Jackson Street, Room 1001 North 
Topeka, Kansas  66612-1286 
 
RE:  EVT0010848 
 
or to any other persons or addresses as may be designated by notice from one party to the other.  
1.7. Cost of Preparing Proposal 
The cost of developing and submitting the proposal is entirely the responsibility of the bidder.  This includes 
costs to determine the nature of the engagement, preparation of the proposal, submitting the proposal, 
negotiating for the contract and other costs associated with this RFP. 
1.8. Preparation of Proposal 
Prices are to be entered in spaces provided on the cost proposal form if provided herein.  Computations and 
totals shall be indicated where required.  In case of error in computations or totals, the unit price shall govern.  
The PNC has the right to rely on any prices provided by bidders.  The bidder shall be responsible for any 
mathematical errors.  The PNC reserves the right to reject proposals which contain errors.   
 
All copies of cost proposals shall be submitted in a separate sealed envelope or container separate from the 
technical proposal.  The outside shall be identified clearly as "Cost Proposal" or "Technical Proposal" with the 
Bid Event ID / RFP number and closing date. 
 
A proposal shall not be considered for award if the price in the proposal was not arrived at independently and 
without collusion, consultation, communication or agreement as to any matter related to price with any other 
bidder, competitor or public officer/employee. 
 
Technical proposals shall contain a concise description of bidder's capabilities to satisfy the requirements of this 
RFP with emphasis on completeness and clarity of content.  Repetition of terms and conditions of the RFP 
without additional clarification shall not be considered responsive. 
1.9. Signature of Proposals 
Each proposal shall give the complete legal name and mailing address of the bidder and be signed by an 
authorized representative by original signature with his or her name and legal title typed below the signature 
line.  If the contract's contact will be a different entity, indicate that individual's contact information for 
communication purposes.  Each proposal shall include the bidder's tax number.  
1.10. Acknowledgment of Amendments 
All bidders shall acknowledge receipt of any amendments to this bid event by returning a signed hard copy with 
the bid.  Failure to acknowledge receipt of any amendments may render the proposal to be non- responsive.  
Changes to this bid event shall be issued only by the Office of Procurement and Contracts in writing.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 14 
 
1.11. Modification of Proposals 
A bidder may modify a proposal by letter or by email at any time prior to the closing date and time for receipt of 
proposals. 
1.12. Withdrawal of Proposals 
A proposal may be withdrawn on written request from the bidder to the Procurement Officer at the Office of 
Procurement and Contracts prior to the closing date. 
1.13. Competition 
The purpose of this bid event is to seek competition.  The bidder shall advise the Office of Procurement and 
Contracts if any specification, language or other requirement inadvertently restricts or limits bidding to a single 
source.  Notification shall be in writing and must be received by the Office of Procurement and Contracts no 
later than five (5) business days prior to the bid closing date.  The Director of Purchases reserves the right to 
waive minor deviations in the specifications which do not hinder the intent of this bid event . 
1.14. Evaluation of Proposals 
Award shall be made in the best interest of the State as determined by the PNC or their designees.  Although 
no weighted value is assigned, consideration may focus toward but is not limited to:  
 
• Cost.  Bidders are not to inflate prices in the initial proposal as cost is a factor in determining who may 
receive an award or be invited to formal negotiations.  The State reserves the right to award to the lowest 
responsive bid without conducting formal negotiations, if authorized by the PNC.  
• Adequacy and completeness of proposal 
• Bidder's understanding of the project 
• Compliance with the terms and conditions of the RFP 
• Experience in providing like services 
• Qualified staff 
• Methodology to accomplish tasks 
• Response format as required by this RFP 
1.15. Acceptance or Rejection 
The Committee reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals or part of a proposal; to waive any 
informalities or technicalities; clarify any ambiguities in proposals; modify any criteria in this RFP; and unless 
otherwise specified, to accept any item in a proposal. 
1.16. Proposal Disclosures 
At the time of closing, only the names of those who submitted proposals shall be made public information.  No 
price information will be released.  A List of Responding Bidders may be obtained in the following manner:  
 
1. Requesting a List of Responding Bidders via E-mail to tabsheets@ks.gov or in writing to the following 
address. Include the Bid Event number EVT0010848 in all requests.  
 
Kansas Department of Administration 
Procurement and Contracts 
Attn:  Bid Results 
900 SW Jackson Street, Room 1001 North 
Topeka, KS 66612-1286 
  
All other documents pertaining to the bid (tabsheet, individual bids, proposals, contract, etc.) are not available 
until the bid has been awarded, contract executed or all bids rejected. 
  
Once a bid file is available, a request for a cost estimate may be submitted to the e- mail or address noted 
above for the costs associated with the reproduction of bid documents.  Procurement and Contracts will attempt 
to provide all Open Records requests with electronic copies when possible. 
  
Requests will not be fulfilled until payment has been received. 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 15 
 
Documents will be sent via First Class Mail.  If requested, they may be sent via express mail services at the 
expense of the requester. 
 
A Tabsheet may be requested for the bid event listed by emailing tabsheets@ks.gov  or by calling 785-296-
2376.  All other information falls under the Open Records Act and will need to be requested through the 
Department of Administration's Office of the Chief Counsel, https://admin.ks.gov/offices/chief-counsel.  
1.17. Disclosure of Proposal Content and Proprietary Information 
All proposals become the property of the State of Kansas.  The Open Records Act (K.S.A. 45- 215 et seq) of the 
State of Kansas requires public information be placed in the public domain at the conclusion of the selection 
process, and be available for examination by all interested parties.  (http://www.admin.ks.gov/offices/chief-
counsel/kansas-open-records-act/kansas-open-records-act-procurement-and-contracts)  No proposals shall be 
disclosed until after a contract award has been issued.  The State reserves the right to destroy all proposals if 
the RFP is withdrawn, a contract award is withdrawn, or in accordance with Kansas law.  Late Technical and/or 
Cost proposals will be retained unopened in the file and not receive consideration or may be returned to the 
bidder. 
 
Trade secrets or proprietary information legally recognized as such and protected by law may be requested to 
be withheld if clearly labeled "Proprietary" on each individual page and provided as separate from the main 
proposal.  Pricing information is not considered proprietary and the bidder's entire proposal response package 
will not be considered proprietary.   
 
All information requested to be handled as "Proprietary" shall be submitted separately from the main proposal 
and clearly labeled, in a separate envelope or clipped apart from all other documentation. The bidder shall 
provide detailed written documentation justifying why this material should be considered "Proprietary".   The 
Office of Procurement and Contracts reserves the right to accept, amend or deny such requests for maintaining 
information as proprietary in accordance with Kansas law. 
 
The State of Kansas does not guarantee protection of any information which is not submitted as required.  
1.18. Exceptions 
By submission of a response, the bidder acknowledges and accepts all terms and conditions of the RFP unless 
clearly avowed and wholly documented in a separate section of the Technical Proposal to be entitled:  
"Exceptions". 
1.19. Notice of Award 
An award is made on execution of the written contract by all parties.   
1.20. News Releases 
Only the State is authorized to issue news releases relating to this bid event, its evaluation, award and/or 
performance of the resulting contract. 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 16 
 
2. Proposal Response 
2.1. Submission of Proposals 
Bidders will submit proposals either electronically or by courier, but not both*  
 
Bid proposals submitted via email will include the following action items: 
 
• Bids submitted via email will be sent to procurement@ks.gov by the due date and time. Subject Line of 
email must contain EVT0010848 and your company name. 
 
• A Technical Proposal, including the signed Event Details document, applicable literature, and other 
supporting documents, in Microsoft® Word, Excel or searchable PDF®. 
 
• A Cost Proposal, in Microsoft® Word, Excel or searchable PDF®. 
 
• The technical proposal file must be named “EVT0010848-Company Name-Technical Proposal” and the 
cost proposal file must be named “EVT0010848-Company Name-Cost Proposal”. 
 
It is the bidder's responsibility to ensure bids are received by the closing date and time.   Delays in email delivery 
shall not excuse late bid submissions. Max email file size is 20MB, several files can be submitted but must 
be labeled accordingly (example: Technical 1 of 3, Costs 2 of 3, Proprietary 3 of 3 etc.)  All descriptions 
must also contain the required information as listed above. 
 
Bid proposals submitted via courier will include the following action items: 
 
• One (1) electronic / software version(s) of the technical and cost proposals are required.   
 
• Both the Technical and Cost Proposals shall be on separate flash drives, in Microsoft® Word, Excel or 
searchable PDF®.   
 
• If asked to submit multiple copies of the proposals, they shall be submitted in a separate sealed 
envelope or container separate from each other. The outside shall be identified clearly as "Cost 
Proposal" or "Technical Proposal" with the Bid Event ID number and closing date.  
 
Bidder's proposal, sealed securely in an envelope or other container, shall be received no later than 2:00 p.m., 
Central Time, on the closing date, addressed as follows: 
 
Kansas Department of Administration 
Procurement and Contracts 
Proposal: EVT0010848 
Closing Date: July 28, 2026, 2:00 PM CST 
900 SW Jackson Street, Room 1001 North 
Topeka, KS 66612-1286 
 
It is the bidder's responsibility to ensure bids are received by the closing date and time. Delays in mail delivery 
or any other means of transmittal, including couriers or agents of the issuing entity shall not excuse late bid 
submissions. 
 
Faxed or telephoned proposals are not acceptable unless otherwise specified.  
 
Proposals received prior to the closing date shall be kept secured and sealed until closing. The State shall not 
be responsible for the premature opening of a proposal or for the rejection of a proposal that was not received 
prior to the closing date because it was not properly identified on the outside of the envelope or container. Late 
Technical and/or Cost proposals will be retained unopened in the file and not receive consideration or may be 
returned to the bidder. 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 17 
 
2.2. Proposal Format 
Bidders are instructed to prepare their Technical Proposal following the same sequence as this RFP.  
2.3. Transmittal Letter 
All bidders shall respond to the following statements: 
 
(a) the bidder is the prime contractor and identifying all subcontractors; 
(b) the bidder is a corporation or other legal entity; 
(c) no attempt has been made or will be made to induce any other person or firm to submit or not to submit a 
proposal; 
(d) the bidder does not discriminate in employment practices with regard to race, color, religion, age (except as 
provided by law), sex, marital status, political affiliation, national origin or disability;  
(e) no cost or pricing information has been included in the transmittal letter or the Technical Proposal;  
(f) the bidder presently has no interest, direct or indirect, which would conflict with the performance of services 
under this contract and shall not employ, in the performance of this contract, any person having a conflict;  
(g) the person signing the proposal is authorized to make decisions as to pricing quoted and has not 
participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to the above statements;  
(h) whether there is a reasonable probability that the bidder is or will be associated with any parent, affiliate or 
subsidiary organization, either formally or informally, in supplying any service or furnishing any supplies or 
equipment to the bidder which would relate to the performance of this contract.  If the statement is in the 
affirmative, the bidder is  required to submit with the proposal, written certification and authorization from the 
parent, affiliate or subsidiary organization granting the State and/or the federal government the right to examine 
any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and records involving such transactions related to the contract.  
Further, if at any time after a proposal is submitted, such an association arises, the bidder will obtain a similar 
certification and authorization and failure to do so will constitute grounds for termination for cause of the 
contract at the option of the State; 
(i) bidder agrees that any lost or reduced federal matching money resulting from unacceptable performance in a 
contractor task or responsibility defined in the RFP, contract or modification shall be accompanied by reductions 
in state payments to Contractor; and 
(j) the bidder has not been retained, nor has it retained a person to solicit or secure a state contract on an 
agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, except for retention of 
bona fide employees or bona fide established commercial selling agencies maintained by the bidder for the 
purpose of securing business.   
 
For breach of this provision, the Committee shall have the right to reject the proposal, terminate the contract for 
cause and/or deduct from the contract price or otherwise recover the full amount of such commission, 
percentage, brokerage or contingent fee or other benefit. 
2.4. Bidder Information 
The bidder must include a narrative of the bidder's corporation and each subcontractor if any.  The narrative 
shall include the following: 
 
(a) date established; 
(b) ownership (public, partnership, subsidiary, etc.); 
(c) number of personnel, full and part time, assigned to this project by function and job title;  
(d) resources assigned to this project and the extent they are dedicated to other matters;  
(e) organizational chart; 
(f) financial statement may be required. 
2.5. Qualifications 
A description of the bidder's qualifications and experience providing the requested or similar service shall be 
submitted with the Technical Proposal.  The bidder must be an established firm recognized for its capacity to 
perform.  The bidder must have sufficient personnel to meet the deadlines specified in the bid event . 
2.6. Experience 
All bidders must have a minimum of five (5) years continuous active participation in the applicable industry, 
providing equipment/services comparable in size and complexity to those specified herein.  
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 18 
 
2.7. Timeline 
A timeline for implementing services must be submitted with the bid. 
2.8. Methodology 
Bidders shall submit with the bid, a detailed explanation of the methodology for implementing services.  
2.9. References 
Provide three (3) references who have purchased similar items or services from the bidder in the last five 
year(s).  References shall show firm name, contact person, address, e-mail address and phone number.  
Bidder's employees and the buying agency shall not be shown as references.  
2.10. Bidder Contracts 
Bidders must include with their RFP response, a copy of any contracts, agreements, licenses, warranties, etc. 
that the bidder would propose to incorporate into the contract generated from this Bid Event.   (State of Kansas 
form DA-146a remains a mandatory requirement in all contracts.) 
2.11. Technical Literature 
All Technical Proposals shall include specifications and technical literature sufficient to allow the State to 
determine that the equipment/services meet(s) all requirements.  If a requirement is not addressed in the 
technical literature, it must be supported by additional documentation and included with the bid.  Proposals 
without sufficient technical documentation may be rejected. 
2.12. Unit Pricing 
Each item required by the bid must be individually priced (i.e. priced per single unit) and be able to be ordered 
individually. 
2.13. Equipment 
All proposed equipment, equipment options, and hardware expansions must be identified by manufacturer and 
model number and descriptive literature of such equipment must be submitted with the bid response.  
2.14. Procurement Card (P-Card) 
Many State Agencies use a State of Kansas Procurement Card (currently Visa) in lieu of a state warrant to pay 
for certain purchases.  No additional charges will be allowed for using the P-Card.  Bidders shall indicate on the 
Event Details document if they will accept the Procurement Card for payment. 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 19 
 
3. Terms and Conditions 
3.1. Contract 
The successful bidder will be required to enter into a written contract with the State.  The contractor agrees to 
accept the provisions of Form DA 146a (Contractual Provisions Attachment), which is incorporated into all 
contracts with the State and is incorporated into this bid event. 
3.2. Contract Documents 
This bid event, any amendments, the response and any response amendments of the Contractor, and the State 
of Kansas DA-146a (Contractual Provision Attachment) shall be incorporated into the written contract, which 
shall compose the complete understanding of the parties. 
 
In the event of a conflict in terms of language among the documents, the following order of precedence shall 
govern: 
 
• Form DA 146a; 
• written modifications to the executed contract; 
• written contract signed by the parties; 
• the Bid Event documents, including any and all amendments; and 
• Contractor's written offer submitted in response to the Bid Event as finalized. 
3.3. Captions 
The captions or headings in this contract are for reference only and do not define, describe, extend, or limit the 
scope or intent of this contract. 
3.4. Definitions 
A glossary of common procurement terms is available at http://admin.ks.gov/offices/procurement -and-contracts, 
under the "Procurement Forms" link. 
3.5. Contract Formation 
No contract shall be considered to have been entered into by the State until all statutorily required signatures 
and certifications have been rendered and a written contract has been signed by the contractor.  
3.6. Statutes 
Each and every provision of law and clause required by law to be inserted in the contract shall be deemed to be 
inserted herein and the contract shall be read and enforced as though it were included herein.  If through 
mistake or otherwise any such provision is not inserted, or is not correctly inserted, then on the application of 
either party the contract shall be amended to make such insertion or correction.  
3.7. Governing Law 
This contract shall be governed by the laws of the State of Kansas and shall be deemed executed in Topeka, 
Shawnee County, Kansas. 
3.8. Jurisdiction 
The parties shall bring any and all legal proceedings arising hereunder in the State of Kansas District Court of 
Shawnee County, unless otherwise specified and agreed upon by the State of Kansas.  Contractor waives 
personal service of process, all defenses of lack of personal jurisdiction and forum non conveniens.  The 
Eleventh Amendment of the United States Constitution is an inherent and incumbent protection with the State of 
Kansas and need not be reserved, but prudence requires the State to reiterate that nothing related to this 
Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of the Eleventh Amendment. 
3.9. Mandatory Provisions 
The provisions found in Contractual Provisions Attachment (DA 146a) are incorporated by reference and made 
a part of this contract. 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 20 
 
3.10. Termination for Cause 
The Director of Purchases may terminate this contract, or any part of this contract, for cause under any one of 
the following circumstances: 
 
• the Contractor fails to make delivery of goods or services as specified in this contract;  
• the Contractor provides substandard quality or workmanship; 
• the Contractor fails to perform any of the provisions of this contract, or  
• the Contractor fails to make progress as to endanger performance of this contract in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
The Director of Purchases shall provide Contractor with written notice of the conditions endangering 
performance.  If the Contractor fails to remedy the conditions within ten (10) days from the receipt of the notice 
(or such longer period as State may authorize in writing), the Director of Purchases shall issue the Contractor 
an order to stop work immediately.  Receipt of the notice shall be presumed to have occurred within three (3) 
days of the date of the notice. 
3.11. Termination for Convenience 
The Director of Purchases may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or in part whenever, 
for any reason, the Director of Purchases shall determine that the termination is in the best interest of the State 
of Kansas.  In the event that the Director of Purchases elects to terminate this contract pursuant to this 
provision, it shall provide the Contractor written notice at least 30 days prior to the termination date.  The 
termination shall be effective as of the date specified in the notice.  The Contractor shall continue to perform 
any part of the work that may have not been terminated by the notice. 
3.12. Rights and Remedies 
If this contract is terminated, the State, in addition to any other rights provided for in this contract, may require 
the Contractor to transfer title and deliver to the State in the manner and to the extent directed, any completed 
materials.  The State shall be obligated only for those services and materials rendered and accepted prior to the 
date of termination. 
 
In the event of termination, the Contractor shall receive payment prorated for that portion of the contract period 
services were provided to or goods were accepted by State subject to any offset by State for actual damages 
including loss of federal matching funds.  
 
The rights and remedies of the State provided for in this contract shall not be exclusive and are in addition to 
any other rights and remedies provided by law. 
3.13. Debarment of State Contractors 
Any Contractor who defaults on delivery or does not perform in a satisfactory manner as defined in this Contract 
may be barred for a period up to three (3) years, pursuant to KSA 75-37,103, or have their work evaluated for 
pre-qualification purposes pursuant to K.S.A. 75-37,104. 
3.14. Antitrust 
If the Contractor elects not to proceed with performance under any such contract with the State, the Contractor 
assigns to the State all rights to and interests in any cause of action it has or may acquire under the anti -trust 
laws of the United States and the State of Kansas relating to the particular products or services purchased or 
acquired by the State pursuant to this contract. 
3.15. Breach 
Waiver or any breach of any contract term or condition shall not be deemed a waiver of any prior or subsequent 
breach. No contract term or condition shall be held to be waived, modified, or deleted except by a written 
instrument signed by the parties thereto. 
 
If any contract term or condition or application thereof to any person(s) or circumstances is held invalid, such 
invalidity shall not affect other terms, conditions, or applications which can be given effect without the invalid 
term, condition or application.  To this end the contract terms and conditions are severable.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 21 
 
3.16. Hold Harmless 
The Contractor shall indemnify the State against any and all loss or damage to the extent arising out of the 
Contractor's negligence in the performance of services under this contract and for infringement of any copyright 
or patent occurring in connection with or in any way incidental to or arising out of the occupancy, use, service, 
operations or performance of work under this contract. 
 
The State shall not be precluded from receiving the benefits of any insurance the Contractor may carry which 
provides for indemnification for any loss or damage to property in the Contractor's custody and control, where 
such loss or destruction is to state property.  The Contractor shall do nothing to prejudice the State's right to 
recover against third parties for any loss, destruction or damage to State property.  
3.17. Force Majeure 
The Contractor shall not be held liable if the failure to perform under this contract arises out of causes beyond 
the control of the Contractor.  Causes may include, but are not limited to, acts of nature, fires, tornadoes, 
quarantine, strikes other than by Contractor's employees, and freight embargoes.  
3.18. Assignment 
The Contractor shall not assign, convey, encumber, or otherwise transfer its rights or duties under this contract 
without the prior written consent of the State.  State may reasonably withhold consent for any reason.  
 
This contract may terminate for cause in the event of its assignment, conveyance, encumbrance or other 
transfer by the Contractor without the prior written consent of the State. 
3.19. Third Party Beneficiaries 
This contract shall not be construed as providing an enforceable right to any third party.  
3.20. Waiver 
Waiver of any breach of any provision in this contract shall not be a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach.  
Any waiver shall be in writing and any forbearance or indulgence in any other form or manner by State shall not 
constitute a waiver. 
3.21. Injunctions 
Should Kansas be prevented or enjoined from proceeding with the acquisition before or after contract execution 
by reason of any litigation or other reason beyond the control of the State, Contractor shall not be entitled to 
make or assert claim for damage by reason of said delay. 
3.22. Staff Qualifications 
The Contractor shall warrant that all persons assigned by it to the performance of this contract shall be 
employees of the Contractor (or specified Subcontractor) and shall be fully qualified to perform the work 
required.  The Contractor shall include a similar provision in any contract with any Subcontractor selected to 
perform work under this contract. 
 
Failure of the Contractor to provide qualified staffing at the level required by the contract specifications may 
result in termination of this contract or damages. 
3.23. Subcontractors 
The Contractor shall be the sole source of contact for the contract.  The State will not subcontract any work 
under the contract to any other firm and will not deal with any subcontractors.  The Contractor is totally 
responsible for all actions and work performed by its subcontractors.  All terms, conditions and requirements of 
the contract shall apply without qualification to any services performed or goods provided by any subcontractor.  
3.24. Independent Contractor 
Both parties, in the performance of this contract, shall be acting in their individual capacity and not as agents, 
employees, partners, joint ventures or associates of one another.  The employees or agents of one party shall 
not be construed to be the employees or agents of the other party for any purpose whatsoever.  
 
The Contractor accepts full responsibility for payment of unemployment insurance, workers compensation, 
social security, income tax deductions and any other taxes or payroll deductions required by law for its 
employees engaged in work authorized by this contract. 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 22 
 
3.25. Worker Misclassification 
The Contractor and all lower tiered subcontractors under the Contractor shall properly classify workers as 
employees rather than independent contractors and treat them accordingly for purposes of workers' 
compensation insurance coverage, unemployment taxes, social security taxes, and income tax withholding.  
Failure to do so may result in contract termination. 
3.26. Immigration and Reform Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) 
All contractors are expected to comply with the Immigration and Reform Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), as may be 
amended from time to time.  This Act, with certain limitations, requires the verification of the employment status 
of all individuals who were hired on or after November 6, 1986, by the Contractor as well as any subcontractor 
or sub-contractors.  The usual method of verification is through the Employment Verification (I -9) Form. 
 
With the submission of this bid, the Contractor hereby certifies without exception that such Contractor has 
complied with all federal and state laws relating to immigration and reform.   Any misrepresentation in this 
regard or any employment of persons not authorized to work in the United States constitutes a material breach 
and, at the State's option, may subject the contract to termination for cause and any applicable damages.  
 
Unless provided otherwise herein, all contractors are expected to be able to produce for the State any 
documentation or other such evidence to verify Contractor's IRCA compliance with any provision, duty, 
certification or like item under the contract. 
 
Contractor will provide a copy of a signed Certification Regarding Immigration Reform and Control Form 
(http://admin.ks.gov/docs/default-source/ofpm/procurement-contracts/irca.doc?sfvrsn=6) with the technical 
proposal. 
3.27. Proof of Insurance 
Upon request, the Contractor shall present an affidavit of Worker's Compensation, Public Liability, and Property 
Damage Insurance to Procurement and Contracts. 
3.28. Conflict of Interest 
The Contractor shall not knowingly employ, during the period of this contract or any extensions to it, any 
professional personnel who are also in the employ of the State and providing services involving this contract or 
services similar in nature to the scope of this contract to the State.  Furthermore, the Contractor shall not 
knowingly employ, during the period of this contract or any extensions to it, any state employee who has 
participated in the making of this contract until at least two years after his/her termination of employment with 
the State. 
3.29. Nondiscrimination and Workplace Safety 
The Contractor agrees to abide by all federal, state and local laws, and rules and regulations prohibiting 
discrimination in employment and controlling workplace safety.  Any violations of applicable laws or rules or 
regulations may result in termination of this contract. 
3.30. Confidentiality 
The Contractor may have access to private or confidential data maintained by State to the extent necessary to 
carry out its responsibilities under this contract.  Contractor must comply with all the requirements of the Kansas 
Open Records Act (K.S.A. 45-215 et seq.) in providing services under this contract.  Contractor shall accept full 
responsibility for providing adequate supervision and training to its agents and employees to ensure compliance 
with the Act.  No private or confidential data collected, maintained or used in the course of performance of this 
contract shall be disseminated by either party except as authorized by statute, either during the period of the 
contract or thereafter.  Contractor agrees to return any or all data furnished by the State promptly at the request 
of State in whatever form it is maintained by Contractor.  On the termination or expiration of this contract, 
Contractor shall not use any of such data or any material derived from the data for any purpose and, where so 
instructed by State, shall destroy or render it unreadable. 
3.31. Environmental Protection 
The Contractor shall abide by all federal, state and local laws, and rules and regulations regarding the 
protection of the environment.  The Contractor shall report any violations to the applicable governmental 
agency.  A violation of applicable laws or rule or regulations may result in termination of this contract for cause.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 23 
 
3.32. Care of State Property 
The Contractor shall be responsible for the proper care and custody of any state owned personal tangible 
property and real property furnished for Contractor's use in connection with the performance of this contract.  
The Contractor shall reimburse the State for such property's loss or damage caused by the Contractor, except 
for normal wear and tear. 
3.33. Prohibition of Gratuities 
Neither the Contractor nor any person, firm or corporation employed by the Contractor in the performance of 
this contract shall offer or give any gift, money or anything of value or any promise for future reward or 
compensation to any State employee at any time. 
3.34. Retention of Records 
Unless the State specifies in writing a different period of time, the Contractor agrees to preserve and make 
available at reasonable times all of its books, documents, papers, records and other evidence involving 
transactions related to this contract for a period of five (5) years from the date of the expiration or termination of 
this contract. 
 
Matters involving litigation shall be kept for one (1) year following the termination of litigation, including all 
appeals, if the litigation exceeds five (5) years. 
  
The Contractor agrees that authorized federal and state representatives, including but not limited to, personnel 
of the using agency; independent auditors acting on behalf of state and/or federal agencies shall have access 
to and the right to examine records during the contract period and during the five (5) year post contract period.  
Delivery of and access to the records shall be within five (5) business days at no cost to the state.  
3.35. Off-Shore Sourcing 
If, during the term of the contract, the Contractor or subcontractor plans to move work previously performed in 
the United States to a location outside of the United States, the Contractor shall immediately notify the 
Procurement and Contracts and the respective agency in writing, indicating the desired new location, the nature 
of the work to be moved and the percentage of work that would be relocated. The Director of Purchases, with 
the advice of the respective agency, must approve any changes prior to work being relocated.  Failure to obtain 
the Director's approval may be grounds to terminate the contract for cause.  
3.36. On-Site Inspection 
Failure to adequately inspect the premises shall not relieve the Contractor from furnishing without additional 
cost to the State any materials, equipment, supplies or labor that may be required to carry out the intent of this 
Contract.   
3.37. Indefinite Quantity Contract 
This is an open-ended contract between the Contractor and the State to furnish an undetermined quantity of a 
good or service in a given period of time.  The quantities ordered will be those actually required during the 
contract period, and the Contractor will deliver only such quantities as may be ordered.  No guarantee of 
volume is made.   An estimated quantity based on past history or other means may be used as a guide.  
3.38. Prices 
Prices shall remain firm for the entire contract period and subsequent renewals. Prices shall be net delivered, 
including all trade, quantity and cash discounts.  Any price reductions available during the contract period shall 
be offered to the State of Kansas.  Failure to provide available price reductions may result in termination of the 
contract for cause. 
3.39. Payment 
Payment Terms are Net 30 days.  Payment date and receipt of order date shall be based upon K.S.A. 75-
6403(b).  This Statute requires state agencies to pay the full amount due for goods or services on or before the 
30th calendar day after the date the agency receives such goods or services or the bill for the goods and 
services, whichever is later, unless other provisions for payment are agreed to in writing by the Contractor and 
the state agency. NOTE:  If the 30th calendar day noted above falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, 
the following workday will become the required payment date. 
 
Payments shall not be made for costs or items not listed in this contract. 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 24 
 
 
Payment schedule shall be on a frequency mutually agreed upon by both the agency and the Contractor.  
3.40. Invoices 
Each purchase order must be individually invoiced.  Invoices shall be forwarded to the using agency in 
duplicate and shall state the following: 
 
• date of invoice. 
• date of shipment (or completion of work); 
• purchase order number and contract number; 
• itemization of all applicable charges; and 
• net amount due. 
 
3.41. Accounts Receivable Set-Off Program 
If, during the course of this contract the Contractor is found to owe a debt to the State of Kansas, a state 
agency, municipality, or the federal government, agency payments to the Contractor may be intercepted / setoff 
by the State of Kansas.  Notice of the setoff action will be provided to the Contractor.  Pursuant to K.S.A. 75-
6201 et seq, Contractor shall have the opportunity to challenge the validity of the debt.  The Contractor shall 
credit the account of the agency making the payment in an amount equal to the funds intercepted.   
 
K.S.A. 75-6201 et seq. allows the Director of Accounts & Reports to setoff funds the State of Kansas owes 
Contractors against debts owed by the Contractors to the State of Kansas, state agencies, municipalities, or the 
federal government.  Payments setoff in this manner constitute lawful payment for services or goods received. 
The Contractor benefits fully from the payment because its obligation is reduced by the amount subject to 
setoff. 
3.42. Federal, State and Local Taxes 
Unless otherwise specified, the contracted price shall include all applicable federal, state and local taxes.  The 
Contractor shall pay all taxes lawfully imposed on it with respect to any product or service delivered in 
accordance with this Contract.  The State of Kansas is exempt from state sales or use taxes and federal excise 
taxes for direct purchases.  These taxes shall not be included in the contracted price.  Upon request, the State 
shall provide to the Contractor a certificate of tax exemption. 
 
The State makes no representation as to the exemption from liability of any tax imposed by any governmental 
entity on the Contractor. 
3.43. Shipping and F.O.B. Point 
Unless otherwise specified, prices shall be F.O.B. DESTINATION, PREPAID AND ALLOWED (included in the 
price bid), which means delivered to a state agency's receiving dock or other designated point as specified in 
this contract or subsequent purchase orders without additional charge.  Shipments shall be made in order to 
arrive at the destination at a satisfactory time for unloading during receiving hours.  
3.44. Deliveries 
All orders shall be shipped within seven (7) days ARO, clearly marked with the purchase order number. If 
delays in delivery are anticipated, the Contractor shall immediately notify the ordering agency of the revised 
delivery date or partial delivery date. The order may be canceled if delivery time is unsatisfactory. The 
Contractor shall inform Procurement and Contracts of any supply or delivery problems. Continued delivery 
problems may result in termination of the contract for cause.   
3.45. Charge Back Clause 
If the Contractor fails to deliver the product within the delivery time established by the contract, the State 
reserves the right to purchase the product from the open market and charge back the difference between 
contract price and open market price to the Contractor. 
3.46. Debarment of State Contractors 
Any Contractor who defaults on delivery or does not perform in a satisfactory manner as defined in this 
Agreement may be barred for up to a period of three (3) years, pursuant to K.S.A. 75- 37,103, or have its work 
evaluated for pre-qualification purposes.  Contractor shall disclose any conviction or judgment for a criminal or 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 25 
 
civil offense of any employee, individual or entity which controls a company or organization or will perform work 
under this Agreement that indicates a lack of business integrity or business honesty.  This includes (1) 
conviction of a criminal offense as an incident to obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or 
subcontract or in the performance of such contract or subcontract; (2) conviction under state or federal statutes 
of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property; (3) 
conviction under state or federal antitrust statutes; and (4) any other offense to be so serious and compelling as 
to affect responsibility as a state contractor.  For the purpose of this section, an individual or entity shall be 
presumed to have control of a company or organization if the individual or entity directly or indirectly, or acting 
in concert with one or more individuals or entities, owns or controls 25 percent or more of its equity, or 
otherwise controls its management or policies.  Failure to disclose an offense may result in the termination of 
the contract. 
3.47. Materials and Workmanship 
The Contractor shall perform all work and furnish all supplies and materials, machinery, equipment, facilities, 
and means, necessary to complete all the work required by this Contract, within the time specified, in 
accordance with the provisions as specified. 
 
The Contractor shall be responsible for all work put in under these specifications and shall make good, repair 
and/or replace, at the Contractor's own expense, as may be necessary, any defective work, material, etc., if in 
the opinion of agency and/or Procurement and Contracts said issue is due to imperfection in material, design, 
workmanship or Contractor fault. 
3.48. Industry Standards 
If not otherwise provided, materials or work called for in this contract shall be furnished and performed in 
accordance with best established practice and standards recognized by the contracted industry and comply 
with all codes and regulations which shall apply. 
3.49. Implied Requirements 
All products and services not specifically mentioned in this contract, but which are necessary to provide the 
functional capabilities described by the specifications, shall be included. 
3.50. Submission of the Bid 
Submission of the bid will be considered presumptive evidence that the bidder is conversant with local facilities 
and difficulties, the requirements of the documents and of pertinent State and/or local codes, state of labor and 
material markets, and has made due allowances in the proposal for all contingencies.  Later claims for labor, 
work, materials, equipment, and tax liability required for any difficulties encountered which could have been 
foreseen will not be recognized and all such difficulties shall be properly taken care of by Contractor at no 
additional cost to the State of Kansas. 
3.51. New Materials, Supplies or Equipment 
Unless otherwise specified, all materials, supplies or equipment offered by the Contractor shall be new, unused 
in any regard and of most current design.  All materials, supplies and equipment shall be first class in all 
respects.  Seconds or flawed items will not be acceptable.  All materials, supplies or equipment shall be suitable 
for their intended purpose and, unless otherwise specified, fully assembled and ready for use on delivery . 
3.52. Inspection 
The State reserves the right to reject, on arrival at destination, any items which do not conform with 
specification of the Contract. 
3.53. Acceptance 
No contract provision or use of items by the State shall constitute acceptance or relieve the Contractor of 
liability in respect to any expressed or implied warranties. 
3.54. Ownership 
All data, forms, procedures, software, manuals, system descriptions and work flows developed or accumulated 
by the Contractor under this contract shall be owned by the using agency. The Contractor may not release any 
materials without the written approval of the using agency. 

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 26 
 
3.55. Information/Data 
Any and all information/data required to be provided at any time during the contract term shall be made 
available in a format as requested and/or approved by the State. 
3.56. Certification of Materials Submitted 
The Bid document, together with the specifications set forth herein and all data submitted by the Contractor to 
support their response including brochures, manuals, and descriptions covering the operating characteristics of 
the item(s) proposed, shall become a part of the contract between the Contractor and the State of Kansas. Any 
written representation covering such matters as reliability of the item(s), the experience of other users, or 
warranties of performance shall be incorporated by reference into the contract. 
3.57. Transition Assistance 
In the event of contract termination or expiration, Contractor shall provide all reasonable and necessary 
assistance to State to allow for a functional transition to another vendor. 
3.58. Integration 
This contract, in its final composite form, shall represent the entire agreement between the parties and shall 
supersede all prior negotiations, representations or agreements, either written or oral, between the parties 
relating to the subject matter hereof.  This Agreement between the parties shall be independent of and have no 
effect on any other contracts of either party. 
3.59. Modification 
This contract shall be modified only by the written agreement and approval of the parties.  No alteration or 
variation of the terms and conditions of the contract shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by the 
parties.  Every amendment shall specify the date on which its provisions shall be effective.  
3.60. Severability 
If any provision of this contract is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable 
to any extent, the remainder of this contract shall not be affected and each provision of this contract shall be 
enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law. 
3.61. Award 
Award will be by line item or group total, whichever is in the best interest of the State of Kansas.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 27 
 
4. SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Definitions/Acronym List 
Term Description 
Application Application refers to the web-based platform which will collect, store, report, 
calculate and track all applicable data. (Also “system”) 
After Action 
Report 
A document detailing the strengths, weaknesses, and lessons learned from a 
disaster response or emergency exercise. With the goal to identify improvements 
for future preparedness, response, and recovery efforts by analyzing what 
happened, what went well, and what needs fixing. 
BCHS KDHE Bureau of Community Health Systems – Preparedness Section 
EHR 
Electronic Health Record systems are used by hospitals and medical providers 
to manage patient care, medications, treatments, quality management and 
outcomes reporting. 
ICS 
Incident Command System is a standardized, flexible framework for managing 
emergencies and planned events, integrating facilities, personnel, procedures, 
and communications into a common structure for effective command, control, 
and coordination across different agencies and jurisdictions, ensuring clarity, 
safety, and efficient resource use during any incident, from small spills to large 
disasters. 
KDHE Kansas Department of Health and Environment 
RFP Request for Proposal  
User A User is a person staffed at the state or local health entity that will have access 
to use the features laid out within each application. 
Background/History 
BCHS provides funding and training opportunities to local public health agencies, healthcare partners, emergency 
management personnel, and emergency medical service providers to enhance the level of emergency preparedness 
through the state. Additionally, BCHS facilitates emergency response planning and provides coordination and support 
during execution of emergency response plans. 
 
BCHS utilizes a cloud application to collect, track, and share data between local entities and KDHE. This provides near 
real-time visibility into the availability of health care resources, including numbers of beds and locations of specialized 
care. Access to this system is provided for state administrative personnel, as well as personnel associated with 
participating facilities and resources. 
 
A cloud-based ICS application is used to coordinate incident response activities at local and regional levels across the 
state of Kansas from planning to execution. Access to this platform enables public health agencies, healthcare partners, 
and other emergency response personnel to track and coordinate response activities using data- driven decision-making. 
 
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 28 
 
 Scope of Work 
In Scope Proposals 
BCHS seeks proposals from qualified vendors for the implementation of a cloud-based application or applications to 
support the data management and incident command functions described in Background/History. Submitted proposals 
must address both of the following key functional areas: 
 
 Incident Management – a scalable electronic incident command system (ICS) that supports planning for, 
responding to and recovering from emergency incidents. The system must adhere to the National Incident 
Management System (NIMS) and the National Response Framework and adapted for public health and 
healthcare use.  
 
 Bed Availability and Resource Management – A statewide electronic healthcare facility resource management 
platform as a data store that captures various, customizable essential elements of information (EEI), organize 
situational awareness views and reports collating the data in a variety of ways (by location, by pre- set region, 
by state, etc.), and create incidents and incident notifications via email and SMS.   
 
Offers must respond to both project components 1) Incident Management and 2) Bed Availability and Resource 
Management. 
 
Out of Scope Proposals 
The collection of patient data and patient movement/tracking are not part of this RFP. No Protected Health Information will 
be accessible through the applications.  
 
Outputs and System Requirements 
Key functional requirements are outlined in Functional Requirements Section. The successful vendor will submit a 
proposal specifying how they will provide incident management and/or bed availability and resource management system 
application(s) that will meet BCHS program requirements.  
 
 
Project Management and Communication  
The vendor must provide a point of contact for technical assistance and ongoing monthly meetings with BCHS program 
staff for the duration of the contract. Additionally, a help desk or technical support contact must be available 24/7.  
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 29 
 
Functional Requirements 
 Incident Management Areas Requirements 
 
Table Instructions 
• Reference # – Requirement identifier number that must be referenced by KDHE and Vendor throughout the RFP 
process. 
• Requirement Description – Describes the key functionality elements BCHS is looking for in the proposed 
application.  
• Description of Service – Vendors shall use this space to identify the capacity to meet the requirement identified .  
 
 
A – Access 
Reference  Requirement Description Description of Service  
A1 
The application must be accessible and fully functional using 
any web-capable device, including tablets, smartphones, and 
laptops. 
 
A2 
The application must be accessible and fully functional with 
the current versions of at least one of the following web 
browsers: Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Apple Safari, or 
Mozilla Firefox. 
 
A3 
The application must support users from state, local, and 
regional levels and conduct cross-sector data collection and 
information sharing. 
 
A4 The application shall not have per-seat/per-use license fees 
and be able to support 5,000 concurrent users.  
A5 
Application Availability—The application must be available 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, with at least a 
99.95% uptime (excluding scheduled application 
maintenance). 
 
A6 
The application must not require any software to be 
downloaded onto user machines to function properly. 
Solutions that require the installation of client software will 
not be considered. 
 
 
 
B – Security/Monitoring Requirements 
Reference  Requirement Description Description of Service  
B1 
The application shall allow authorized administrators to view 
users’ access status and be able to terminate current 
connections as needed. 
 
B2 The application must support role-based access controls.  
B3 
The application’s role-based access controls must allow 
discrete authorization for read/write, editing, and deletion 
permissions. 
 
B4 Local system administrators shall be able to assign user 
roles and privileges to user accounts.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 30 
 
B5 The application must support segregation of data access 
privileges based on user role.  
B6 
The application shall allow authorized administrators to 
create new healthcare facility accounts and new user 
accounts related to that healthcare facility. 
 
B7 The application must require all users to login using a unique 
ID and password.  
B8 
The application must require Multi-Factor Authentication 
(MFA) for all users, including administrators and staff, upon 
every login attempt to the system. 
 
B9 Must be able to provide full audit logs for authentication 
events upon request.  
B10 
Per the Data Security Attachment, Contractor shall ensure 
that all AGENCY Production and Non-Production Data 
remains in the United States of America. Contractor shall 
further ensure no Production or Non-Production Data is 
accessed by Contractor employees, contractors, or any 
other authorized individual located outside of the United 
States.  
 
 
 
 
C – User Interface Requirements 
Reference  Requirement Description Description of Service  
C1 Ability to export reports in Excel or Comma-Separated Value 
(CSV) formats.  
C2 
The application includes a Federal Emergency Management 
Agency-compatible After-Action Report that is completed and 
downloaded. 
 
C4 
The application shall provide the ability to create incidents, 
manage multiple incidents simultaneously, and store, query 
and view historical data associated with an incident. 
 
C5 
Application has a distinct user administration section. A 
system administrator must be able to easily 
add/change/inactivate/remove users.  
 
C6 Each user shall have a distinct access profile.   
C7 Application shall provide access to a test/demo environment 
for system testing and user training.  
C8 Application shall allow Hazard Vulnerability Assessment to be 
completed and downloadable.  
  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 31 
 
Bed Availability and Resource Management Project Area Requirements 
 
Table Instructions 
• Reference # – Requirement identifier number that must be referenced by KDHE and Vendor throughout the RFP 
process. 
• Requirement Description – Describes the key functionality elements BCHS is looking for in the proposed 
application.  
• Description of Service – Vendors shall use this space to identify the capacity to meet the requirement identified.     
 
D – Access Requirements 
Reference  Requirement Description Description of Service  
D1 
The application must be accessible and fully functional 
using any web-capable device including tablets, smart 
phones, and laptops. 
 
D2 
The application must be accessible and fully functional with 
the current versions of at least one of the following web 
browsers: Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Apple Safari, or 
Mozilla Firefox. 
 
D3 
The application must support users from state, local and 
regional levels and conduct cross-sector data collection and 
information sharing 
 
D4 The application shall not have per seat/per use license fees 
and be able to support 2,000 concurrent users.  
D6 
Application Availability—The application must be available 
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, with at 
least a 99.95% uptime (excluding scheduled application 
maintenance). 
 
D7 
The application must not require any software to be 
downloaded onto user machines to function properly. 
Solutions that require installation of client software will not 
be considered. 
 
 
E – Security/Monitoring Requirements 
Referenc
e  Requirement Description Description of Service  
E1 
The application shall allow authorized administrators to 
view users access status and be able to terminate current 
connections as needed. 
 
E2 The application must support role-based access controls.  
E3 
The application’s role-based access controls must allow 
discrete authorization for read/write, editing, and deletion 
permission. 
 
E4 Local system administrators shall be able to assign user 
roles and privileges to user accounts.  
E5 The application must support segregation of data access 
privileges based on user role.  

Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 32 
 
E6 
The application shall allow authorized administrators to 
create new healthcare facility accounts and new user 
accounts related to that healthcare facility. 
 
E7 The application must require all users to login using a 
unique ID and password.  
E8 
The application must require Multi-Factor Authentication 
(MFA) for all users, including administrators and staff, upon 
every login attempt to the system. 
 
E9 Must be able to provide full audit logs for authentication 
events upon request.  
E10 
Per the Data Security Attachment, Contractor shall ensure 
that all AGENCY Production and Non-Production Data 
remains in the United States of America. Contractor shall 
further ensure no Production or Non-Production Data is 
accessed by Contractor employees, contractors, or any 
other authorized individual located outside of the United 
States.  
 
 
 
F – User Interface Requirements 
Reference Requirement Description Description of Service  
F2 Ability to export reports to Excel or Comma-Separated 
Value (CSV).  
F3 The application shall have the ability to batch upload/update 
user data.  
F4 
Application has a distinct user administration section. A 
system administrator must be able to easily 
add/change/inactivate/remove users.  
 
F5 Each user shall have a distinct access profile.  
F6 Application shall provide access to a test/demo environment 
for system testing and user training.  
F7 
Application has the ability for system administrators to enter 
a “switch to user view”. Temporarily allowing administrators 
to be in the system as the user and troubleshoot issues. 
 
F8 Application shall allow the system administrators to create 
and configure resource and status views.  
F9 Applications shall allow users the ability to make personal 
resource and status views.  
F10 The facility account includes a detailed snapshot of facility 
contacts, resource availability, and other data points.  
F11 
Application shall provide the ability to create ad-hoc and 
standard event prompts to collect facilities point-in-time 
data. 
 
 
G – Add-On Functionality 
Reference  Requirement Description Description of Service  
G1 
The application provides API support to automate the import 
of bed availability data from Hospital Electronic Health 
Record (EHR) information. 
 

 
Deliverables (Vendor to complete for RFP) 
Timeline 
In response to this RFP, the Bidder will provide an estimated timeline for completion of the following:  
• Coordinate pilot testing of web-based application in demo environment with BCHS. 
• Move web-based application to production and provide technical assistance to BCHS for onboarding end users.  
• Provide ongoing technical assistance to KDHE staff. Provide end-user training.  
• Provide ongoing web-based application maintenance and support. 
 
Technical Proposal 
The bidder’s technical proposal shall address all items mentioned in Functional Requirements Section. In the proposal 
response, please complete the tables in section three to include how you propose to meet the specifications of this 
section.  
The bidder will review the Kansas Department of Health and Environment’s Data Security Attachment.  
The bidder’s technical proposal will include the following completed documents:  
• Cloud Service Provider Questionnaire  
• Security Questionnaire 
• Architecture Document 
 
Timeline 
The bidder is to complete the items below and submit them in the Technical Proposal. We realize these are estimates. 
Proposals must include a timeline for implementation.  
 
 
 
Deliverable 
Target Date 
(X months/X business days 
after final contract 
signature) 
Complete application specifications  
Web-based application developed for pilot testing  
Web application training for BCHS  
Application moved to production and provided technical assistance 
to KDHE 
 
Onboarding of end users   
Go-Live date  
 
State Resources to be Provided  
The BCHS Preparedness Section staff will serve as domain administrator(s) within the system.  
 
  

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 34 
 
 
Kansas Department of Health and Environment 
Data Security Attachment 
 
The following provisions apply to all successful bidders providing goods and/or services to Kansas Department of Health 
and Environment (“AGENCY”) under this Data Security Attachment. These provisions are incorporated into the Contract 
between the Contractor and AGENCY. By submitting a bid, the Contractor confirms that it can comply with, and will be 
bound by, these provisions and any other applicable terms and conditions in the solicitation.  
 
1. General Statements.  
a. Contractor acknowledges that it receives and/or has access to AGENCY computers, communication systems, 
data, and/or networks for the purposes set forth in the Contract.  Contractor agrees to ensure that any information 
or data required to be delivered pursuant the Contract shall be delivered through systems and infrastructure 
approved by AGENCY and shall be consistent with industry best practices pertaining to security.  If any data is 
made available or accessible to Contractor, its employees, agents, or contractors, pertaining to AGENCY’s 
business or financial affairs, or to AGENCY’s projects or transactions, Contractor will not store, copy, analyze, 
monitor, or otherwise use that data except for the purposes set forth in the Contract for the benefit of AGENCY.   
b. Subject to any other express agreement between the Parties with respect to the Contract, Contractor has 
implemented and will maintain appropriate technical and organizational measures, internal controls, and 
information security routines intended to protect AGENCY’s data, services, and infrastructure in its environments 
or under its control against accidental, unauthorized or unlawful access, disclosure, alteration, loss, or destruction, 
as set out below.   
c. To the extent AGENCY’s data includes personal data, the implementation of and compliance with these 
measures and any additional security measures set out herein are designed to provide an appropriate level of 
security in respect of the processing of the personal data and shall at all times comply fully with all applicable 
laws, regulations, and government orders relating to Restricted- Use Information and data privacy with respect to 
any such data that Contractor receives or has access to under the Contract or in connection with the performance 
of any services for AGENCY.  Contractor will otherwise protect Restricted- Use Information and will not use, 
disclose, or transfer across borders such Restricted-Use Information.    
d. Contractor shall, at all times, remain compliant with the privacy and security requirements mandated by federal, 
state and local laws and regulations.  Specifically, Contractor will fully comply with all Kansas statutes, 
regulations, and policies including the requirements in:  
i. K.S.A 75-7244.   
ii. S.B. 291 as published in Session Laws as published in Session Laws 2024, ch. 95, eff. July 1, 2024  
iii. Applicable Kansas IT policies and standards adopted under the authority of the Kansas Information 
Technology Executive Council (ITEC), including 7000 Series “Security”  
2. Definitions. 
a. “Accepted Working Condition” (AWC) is the condition of the application in the Production Environment after the 
initial use of that application in the Production Environment.  
b. “Authorized Personnel” means Contractor’s employees who have a need to know or otherwise access 
Restricted-Use Information to enable Contractor to perform its obligations under this Contractor.  
c. “Change Request” (CR) is any activity that alters the objectives, deliverables, requirements, basic architecture, 
cost or schedule of the service, solution, or interface system; or an activity that creates an impact/change to a 
current application in production, software configuration, or hardware configuration.  An agency CR is defined 
as any change within the original scope of work and specifications. Any alteration of the original bid’s scope of 
work or specifications must originate through the Office of Procurement. 
d. “Contract” is the legal agreement between AGENCY and the Contractor to which this document is incorporated 
into.   

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 35 
 
 
e. “Criminal Justice Information Services” (CJIS) is data provided to AGENCY by the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation or the Kansas Bureau of Investigation that includes sensitive information about criminal activities, 
investigations, and individuals involved in the criminal justice system.  CJIS data shall include but is not limited 
to: (1) biometric data; (2) identity history data; (3) biographic data; and (4) case history data.  
f. “Cybersecurity Incident” shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 75-7244.  
g. “Data Center” shall mean a facility physically located in the United States of America where the servers, 
software, and/or hardware parts of Contractor’s service are located in. 
h. “Data Security Incident” means a situation where Aggregator reasonably believes that there has been (1) the 
loss or misuse (by any means) of Restricted-Use Information, (2) the inadvertent, unauthorized and/or unlawful 
processing, corruption, modification, transfer, sale or rental of Restricted- Use Information; (3) any other act or 
omission that compromises the security, confidentiality, or integrity of Restricted- Use Information or (4) any 
breach of any data protection requirements in relation to the processing of Restricted- Use Information by 
Contractor any current or former employees of Contractor. 
i. “Destroy” means shredding, permanently erasing and deleting, degaussing, or otherwise modifying Restricted 
Use Information in paper, electronic, or other means so as to make it unreadable, unreconstructible, and 
indecipherable. 
j. “Information Security Incident” includes Data Security Incident and Cybersecurity Incident as defined in this 
Attachment.  Information Security Incident does not include unsuccessful access attempts or similar events 
that do not compromise the security or privacy of the Supplier’s systems, including pings, port scans, denial of 
service attacks, and other network attacks on firewalls or networked systems.  
k. “Information System” is a set of components, including hardware, software, data, people, and processes, that 
work together to collect, store, process, and distribute information. 
l. “Non-Production Data” is data used for testing, development, or training, and not for live business operations 
or real users.  Non- Production Data includes but is not limited to anonymized or sample data that does not 
contain Restricted-Use Information.  
m. “Personal Financial Information” (PFI) is any non- public personally identifiable financial information that an 
entity collects about an individual in order to provide a financial product or service.  
n. “Personally Identifiable Information” (PII) is any information that can be used on its own or with other 
information to identify or locate a single person.  PII shall include but not be limited to a person’s social security 
number (SSN), passport number, driver's license number, taxpayer identification number, patient identification 
number, and financial account or credit card number. 
o. “Production Data” is any data, including but not limited to information, figures, statistics, records, documents, or 
results, derived directly or indirectly from a Production Environment.  This may include data from a 
development environment where it originates from or current/historic data from a Production Environment.  
p. “Production Environment” is the operational environment in which a software application or system is deployed 
and used by end users to perform their intended tasks.  
q. “Protected Health Information” (PHI) is any information, in any form or medium, held or transmitted, about 
health status, provision of health care, or payment for health care that is created or collected by a covered 
entity or the business associates of a covered identity and can be linked to a specific individual.  
r. “Restricted-Use Information” (RUI) includes CJIS, PFI, PII, and PHI as defined in this Attachment.  
s. “Vulnerability Scan” is the process of identifying weaknesses in information system components that could be 
used to compromise networks, systems, databases, or applications. Vulnerability scanning includes but is not 
limited to scanning for patch levels, scanning for functions, ports, protocols, and services that should not be 
accessible to users or devices, and scanning for improperly configured or incorrectly operating information flow 
control mechanisms. 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 36 
 
 
 
3. Security Governance.  
a. Security Awareness and Training.  Contractor shall maintain an effective information security awareness, training, 
and education program, informing all employees, subcontractors, and other relevant parties of their information 
security obligations.  Contractor shall have an information security policy that is communicated to and available to 
its staff. Contractor shall ensure that employees and subcontractors involved in the Contract maintain a requisite 
level of competence in the relevant information security systems technology.  Determination of requisite level of 
competence shall be in AGENCY’s discretion and shall satisfy the following minimum standards:  
i. Contractor’s information security systems awareness training must meet the minimum requirements for IT 
security procedures and State of Kansas, Kansas Information Technology Executive Council (ITEC), Office of 
Information Technology Services (OITS) and AGENCY policies, statutes and standards including ITEC 7000 
Series.   
ii. At the execution of the Contract and, thereafter, upon receipt of any written request by AGENCY, Contractor 
shall provide Contractor’s information security policy, evidence of the security awareness, training, and 
education program to AGENCY, and a letter warranting all of Contractor’s employees, and any other 
individuals acting on behalf of Contractor or under Contractor’s direction, successfully completed Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and IT security awareness training prior to accessing 
AGENCY data.  The letter shall also provide details of the of topics the training employees have completed.   
If Contractor’s training does not meet the requisite level of competence requirements as determined by AGENCY, 
employees of the vendor will be required to complete the AGENCY Vendor IT Security Training before access is 
granted to AGENCY data. 
b. Security Roles and Responsibilities.  If providing a service, solution, software, data hosting, or an interface to 
AGENCY, Contractor shall:  
i. Define, and document roles and responsibilities related to information security for the service, solution, 
software, data hosting, or interface;  
ii. Implement user identification and access controls designed to limit access to users in accordance with the 
principles of least privilege; 
iii. Ensure that all personnel with physical or logical access to the service, solution, software, data hosting, or 
interface will receive industry standard annual security awareness training;  
iv. Maintain documentation regarding roles and responsibilities related to information security for the service, 
solution, software, or interface and review and update this document at least once per year; and  
v. At the execution of the Contract and, thereafter, upon receipt of any written request by AGENCY, Contractor 
shall provide such documentation to AGENCY. 
c. Change Management.  Contractor shall ensure that all changes to proposed services, solutions, or interfaces are 
authorized according to change management policies. Contractor will maintain the service, solution, or interface in 
the AWC with respect to the version of all related hardware/software that may affect the service, solution, or 
interface.  Contractor is not obligated to upgrade service, solution, or interface to meet upgrades of any 
hardware/software made by AGENCY unless a CR is completed.  All project deliverables formally approved or 
baselined will be governed by a change management request to be approved by the Parties. Contractor will 
maintain a development environment that will allow them to provide modifications to the service, solution, or 
interface as demonstrated in the AWC.  An impact analysis and other testing shall be conducted before software 
is installed or changes are put in production. Results of the impact analysis and testing shall be orderly 
documented. 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 37 
 
 
4. Physical & Environmental Security.   Contractor shall support physical and environmental security measures, 
including securing data on a secure server, in locked data cabinets within a secure facility located within the United 
States of America.  Contractor shall adhere to the following:  
a. All AGENCY data must be contained in secure, environmentally controlled Data Centers located in the United 
States of America.  Data Centers shall be owned, operated, and controlled by Contractor.  If the Data Center is 
not owned, operated, and controlled by Contractor (including leased facilities), then Contractor must receive 
AGENCY approval in writing for Contractor’s use of alternate Data Centers.  Contractor will identify and notify 
AGENCY of the locations of all Data Centers used to host AGENCY data.  Contractor shall ensure that all 
AGENCY data is always stored, processed, and maintained within the United States of America.  Contractor shall 
further ensure that no AGENCY Data is accessed by Contractor’s employees, contractors, or any other 
individuals under Contractor’s control from outside of the United States.    
b. Data Centers must implement physical environmental controls that mitigate or prevent damage from water, fire, 
temperature, and humidity for Information Systems that process, store, or transmit RUI.  Contractor must ensure 
sufficient power protection is available for critical Information Systems to perform an orderly shutdown.  
c. Contractor must restrict physical access to Data Centers that process, store, or transmit RUI to Authorized 
Personnel only. Contractor must maintain a list, which shall be reviewed and updated as user access privileges 
change or at least annually, of all Authorized Personnel with physical access to Data Centers that process, store, 
or transmit RUI.  Contractor must require Authorized Personnel to authenticate themselves prior to entry to Data 
Centers that process, store or transmit RUI.  If Contractor allows visitors to Data Centers that process, store or 
transmit RUI, then visitors must always be escorted by Authorized Personnel.  Contractor must log all visitor 
access to Data Centers that process, store or transmit RUI. 
5. Data Security & Management. 
a. Contractor shall at all times implement and maintain physical, electronic and organizational security measures in 
accordance with the best practices and highest industry standards to protect AGENCY’s data, materials, and any 
deliverables against any unauthorized access, use, destruction, loss, disclosure, or improper alteration.  
b. Contractor shall ensure Contractor’s Data Center and/or cloud environment is secure with industry standard 
encryption techniques that meets all legal requirements for data stored at rest and in transit. Contractor shall 
ensure Secure Socket Layers (SSL) configuration per industry best practices, session, and port management.  
c. Contractor shall ensure that external connections incorporated into the Data Center and/or cloud have appropriate 
security controls including industry standard intrusion detection and countermeasures that will detect and 
terminate any unauthorized activity prior to entering the firewall maintained by Contractor.  Contractor shall 
ensure that the Data Center will utilize industry standard firewalls regulating all data entering the internal data 
network from any external source which will enforce secure connections between internal and external systems 
and will permit only authorized data to pass through. 
d. Contractor shall utilize industry standard malware protection, incorporating both signature and non- signature-
based detection mechanisms, on all systems with access to AGENCY data.  Contractor shall ensure that malware 
protection will be centrally managed and receive regular automatic updates to malicious code protection 
mechanisms and data files.  
e. Contractor shall ensure that any service, software, solution, data hosting, or an interface is capable of auditing the 
following events: (1) successful and unsuccessful account logon events; (2) account management events; (3) 
object access; (4) policy change; (5) privilege functions; (6) process tracking and system events; (7) all 
administrator activity; (8) authentication checks; (9) authorization check; (10) data deletions; (11) data access; 
(12) data changes; and (13) permission changes.   
f. Contractor shall ensure that the service, software, solution, data hosting, or interface employs automated 
mechanisms to centrally review, analyze and correlate audit and log records from multiple components of the 
service, software, solution, data hosting, or an interface to support organizational processes for investigation, 
alerting and response to suspicious activities.  Contractor shall ensure that the service, software, solution, data 
hosting, or interface supports exporting of log files to AGENCY for review and analysis.  

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 38 
 
 
g. Contractor will maintain a complete asset inventory of its infrastructure, network, applications, and cloud 
environments. Contractor will also maintain an inventory of all its media on which AGENCY’s data is stored.  
Access to the inventories of such media will be restricted to that Parties’ Authorized Personnel.  
h. Contractor shall provide and maintain a backup of AGENCY data that can be recovered in an orderly and timely 
manner within a predefined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives. Contractor 
shall store a daily incremental and weekly full back backup of AGENCY’s data within the United States of 
America.  Contractor will maintain a disaster recovery plan. At the execution of the Contract and upon written 
request by AGENCY, Contractor shall provide such plan to AGENCY. 
i. Contractor shall implement a contingency plan designed to maintain the access to AGENCY data and to prevent 
the unintended destruction or loss of data. The contingency plan should provide a predefined frequency, 
consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives for disaster recovery and archival purposes of 
AGENCY data at a secure facility located within the United States of America.  
j. Contractor shall ensure that all AGENCY Production Data remains in the United States of America. Contractor 
shall further ensure no Production Data is accessed by Contractor employees, contractors, or any other 
authorized individual located outside of the United States.  
k. Contractor shall ensure that all AGENCY Non- Production Data remains in the United States of America. 
Contractor shall further ensure no Non-Production Data is accessed by Contractor employees, contractors, or any 
other authorized individual located outside of the United States.  
l. If applicable, upon completion, termination, or expiration of the Contract, or at the request of AGENCY, Contractor 
shall promptly return all media supplied by AGENCY, accompanied by a letter which certifies all private and/or 
confidential data and software supplied by AGENCY have been removed from all Contractor’s equipment, files, 
and backup.  Contractor shall also dispose of any data in accordance with Paragraph 8.  
m. In the event the Contractor ceases doing business, dissolves, ceases to provide all services as defined  in the 
Contract, makes a general assignment for benefit of creditors, has a receiver appointed for any reason, suffers a 
foreclosure, attachment or levy on any significant business assets, admits its inability to pay debts as they mature 
or becomes the debtor in any bankruptcy proceeding, the Parties agree to enter into a separate statement of work 
at a negotiated rate for all work performed in connection with a data migration project to migrate AGENCY’s data.  
Both Parties agree to negotiation of the separate statement of work in good faith.  Should Contractor fail to abide 
by the terms of this paragraph and not enter a separate statement of work, AGENCY reserves the right to obtain 
all of AGENCY’s data that AGENCY or its affiliates have created, store, uploaded, and or modified within thirty 
(30) days of notification and at no cost to AGENCY.   
6. Data Privacy. 
a. Contractor will implement and maintain a written information security program that contains appropriate 
security measures to safeguard the RUI of AGENCY’s data that the Contractor receives, stores, 
maintains, processes, or otherwise accesses in connection with the provision of services hereunder.  
b. Contractor shall not disclose to any other person, firm, or corporation or entity (other than to AGENCY) or 
use for  its own benefit, except as provided in the Contract, any data and/or confidential information it 
receives from AGENCY. Contractor shall return any and all data furnished by AGENCY and its affiliates 
within 30 days of the request of AGENCY in  whatever form(s) it is maintained by Contractor. On the 
termination of the Contract, Contractor will not use any of such data or any material derived from the data 
for any purpose and will destroy such data or material except as otherwise expressly stated by this 
attachment or the Contract.  In the event Contractor discloses any of AGENCY’s proprietary and/or RUI, 
AGENCY may immediately terminate the Contract and pursue legal action recourse.  The restrictions and 
obligations contained herein shall continue in perpetuity from the date of the Contract unless AGENCY 
provides a written release to Contractor.  
c. Except to the extent the information is proven to be publicly known through no breach or  
misappropriation, and except to the extent a statute, rule or regulation requires AGENCY to make 
information publicly available, all software, documentation, interfaces and other components of the 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 39 
 
 
service provided by Contractor is confidential information of Contractor, and may not be disclosed or used 
by AGENCY, except solely for its own internal business purposes. 
7. Information Security Incidents.  
a. Contractor shall maintain an incident response program that implements incident handling for information security 
incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery 
processes.  The incident response program must have the capability to support automated mechanisms for 
supporting incident handling processes.    
b. Contractor is responsible for all Information Security Incidents that is processed by, or on behalf of, Contractor.  
Contractor shall immediately notify AGENCY (within twelve hours) in writing whenever Contractor reasonably 
believes that there has been an Information Security Incident.  After providing such notice, Contractor will 
investigate the Information Security Incident, and immediately take all necessary steps to eliminate or contain any 
exposure of RUI and keep AGENCY advised of the status of such Information Security Incident and all matters 
related thereto.  Contractor further agrees to provide, at Contractor’s sole cost, reasonable assistance and 
cooperation requested by AGENCY, in the furtherance of any correction, remediation, or investigation of any such 
Information Security Incident and/or the mitigation of any damage, including any notification required by law or 
that AGENCY may determine appropriate to send to individuals impacted or potentially impacted by the 
Information Security Incident.  In addition, within a reasonable time frame of identifying or being informed of an 
Information Security Incident, Contractor shall develop a plan and submit to AGENCY for review a plan that 
reduces the likelihood of a recurrence of such Information Security Incident.   
c. Contractor agrees to adhere to all Information Security Incident reporting in accordance with K.S.A. 75- 7244, 
including utilizing the Incident Reporting Form on the Kansas Office of Information Technology Services website.   
8. Destruction of Data.   Unless otherwise specified in the Contract, Contractor agrees that upon termination of the 
Contract or upon request by AGENCY, Contractor shall erase, destroy, and render unrecoverable all AGENCY and 
AGENCY affiliate data and certify in writing that these actions have been completed within a time frame 
communicated to Contractor by an authorized agent of AGENCY.  At a minimum, media sanitization is to be 
performed according to the standards enumerated by the National Institute of Standards, Guidelines for Media 
Sanitization Special Publication 800- 88r1.  Records of all sanitizations involving AGENCY data shall maintained for 
five (5) years.   In the case that any data must be retained for Federal Reporting purposes beyond the termination of 
the Contract, the Parties shall arrange for the proper transfer, storage, archiving and schedule for deletion of such 
data. 
9. Vulnerability Scans & Security Audit.   
a. Contractor shall conduct Vulnerability Scans  on networks, systems, databases, or applications that create, 
maintain, process, transmit, or store data hosting AGENCY RUI on a regular basis (no less than every thirty 
days).  Contractor shall perform quarterly Vulnerability Scans using an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and 
Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) and shall provide AGENCY with the results of those scans.    
b. If a Vulnerability Scan identifies vulnerabilities in Contractor’s networks, systems, databases, or applications, 
Contractor is expected to remediate them or, in the rare cases where that is not possible, implement approved 
and documented compensating controls to reduce risk. In cases where a vulnerability introduces heightened risk 
to data exposure, AGENCY may disconnect, disable and/or block the device from accessing AGENCY systems 
until remediation or risk mitigation takes place. 
c. Contractor shall ensure performance of a security audit at least once annually.    
10. Generative AI.  Contractor shall comply with the State of Kansas Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) Policy 
(Memorandum No. P8200.00).   
a. Contractor shall ensure that responses generated from generative AI outputs shall be reviewed by knowledgeable 
human operators for accuracy, appropriateness, privacy, and security before being acted upon or disseminated.  

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 40 
 
 
b. Contractor shall ensure RUI or any other confidential AGENCY data shall not be utilized in generative AI queries 
or for building or training proprietary generative AI programs unless explicitly approved by AGENCY with 
consultation from the Chief Information Security Officer.   
c. At the execution of the Contract, Contractor shall disclose Contractor’s utilization of generative AI or integrations 
with Generative AI platforms.  Contractor shall immediately notify AGENCY of any updates to Contractor’s 
systems that would change Contractor’s use of generative AI.  If Contractor is utilizing Generative AI to build 
software explicitly for the State of Kansas, Contractor must demonstrate positive control over all data input into 
the system. Contractor shall annotate all usage of software code generated by generative AI.  
11. AGENCY Audit.  In addition to any documents outlined in this Appendix,  upon AGENCY’s reasonable written request 
with no less than thirty (30) days’ notice during the term of the Contract, the Contractor agrees to cooperate and assist 
AGENCY with information security audits regarding the Contractor’s compliance with the terms and conditions 
regarding information security hereunder. This cooperation shall include, but not be limited to:  
a. Providing evidence of certification, policies, training and awareness program, and compliance related to 
information security;  
b. Making available to AGENCY the Contractor’s Service and Organization Controls (SOC) 2;  
c. Making available to AGENCY the Contractor’s NIST 800-53; 
d. Making available to AGENCY an executive summary of the Contractor’s most recent information security tests, 
including remedial actions taken;  
e. Providing evidence of a comprehensive continuous monitoring program encompassing all systems with access to 
AGENCY data; and 
f. Permitting AGENCY to review the Contractor’s information security program, including results of vulnerability 
scanning.  
 
  

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 41 
 
 
Name of Vendor 
Cloud Service Provider Questionnaire 
 
1. Does the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) have a secure environment, federally authorized to at least the standards of 
confidentiality and integrity from the Moderate FIPS-199 level to store records containing Personal Identifiable 
Information (PII)? 
 
2. Does the Cloud provider have the ability to alter Terms of Service or contracts without the express written consent of 
the customer agency? 
 
3. Will the ownership of data remain under the sole ownership of the State of Kansas at all times? 
 
4. Will backup information be returned to the State of Kansas in the event the contract is ended or the Cloud provider 
files for bankruptcy? 
 
5. Is there a documented process to address the removal and control of agency information upon the termination of the 
contract between the agency and the cloud provider? 
 
6. Can the cloud provider utilize any data stored on their systems for any purpose outside agency use? 
 
7. Does the contract contain language to restrict the sharing of privacy data with any entity not explicitly authorized in 
the contract? 
 
8. Does the contract contain language to restrict the storage, transfer, or processing of privacy data to only facilities that 
fall under the legal jurisdiction of the United States? 
 
9. What controls are in place to prevent the misuse of data by those having access? 
 
10. Does the cloud provider allow for access to data as permitted under current federal and Kansas law to both authorized 
federal agencies and individuals wishing to verify their own PII? 
 
11. While the data is with the cloud provider, what are the requirements for determining if the data is sufficiently 
accurate, relevant, timely, and complete to ensure fairness in making determinations? 
 
12. Describe what privacy training is provided and who is responsible for protecting the privacy rights of the users of the 
cloud? 
 
13. How does the cloud provider facilitate response to Kansas Open Records Act (KORA) / Federal Open Information 
Act (FOIA) / subpoena requests? 
 
14. Is there a complete and documented process to report and handle breaches? 
 
15. Describe the process that the CSP will use to report, within 1-hour, any potential privacy or security breaches to the 
agency regardless of whether the breach was intentional or inadvertent. 
 
16. Describe the specific redress actions that the agency can take against the cloud provider in the event of a breach. 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 42 
 
 
Security Questionnaire 
 
Instructions for Completing the Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire 
Vendor will complete this questionnaire by responding to all questions to the best of their ability. 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
Physical Security- involves the security of the physical devices, which includes the ability to control access to such 
hardware.  
# Question Response 
1 What are the hardware components 
and where are they physically located? 
 
2 Who has access to the physical 
components? 
 
3 Are the environmental controls 
adequate (i.e., smoke and water 
detection, fire prevention)? 
 
4 What UPS is being used and what 
characteristics does it have? 
 
User Security- addresses the ability to ensure that the user accessing data and systems is in fact who they say they are 
and that they have access only to those resources to which they are authorized. Functions that are involved in this issue 
include identification, authentication, and authorization of the individual, as well as non-repudiation and audit. 
# Question Response 
5 How are users identified to the 
systems? 
 
6 What unique form of identification do 
they have (UserID) ?  
 
7 Who administers the UserIDs?   
8 How are inactive users removed, by 
whom, and how timely? 
 
9 How are users authenticated to the 
system (passwords, smart cards, 
biometrics)? 
 
10 If passwords are used, what are the 
specific password rules (minimum 
length, character makeup, aging, etc)?  
 
11 How is assurance provided that the 
information received has not been 
altered? 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 43 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
12 How is assurance provided that the 
reputed sender is indeed the one who 
sent it?  
 
13 What levels of system access are there?  
14 Who determines and maintains?  
15 What audit trails are maintained to 
enable reconstruction and/or review of 
operations performed on systems? 
 
16 How are they protected so users can 
not change them? 
 
17 How often are they reviewed and by 
whom?  
 
Application Security- concerns the built-in security features of the application itself. 
# Question Response 
18 What security features are built into the 
application? 
 
19 How specifically do the security 
features work? 
 
20 If the application communicates to 
other systems, how does that happen? 
(i.e.. web server to database server).  
 
21 Has auto complete  = off  been set 
for all input fields on applications using 
IE 5.0 or above.? 
 
22 What information is logged for each 
transaction? (The minimum is userID, 
IP Address, and time and date stamp) 
 
23 Where is the logging information 
stored?  
 
24 Does the application use session tokens 
that are custom created or default from 
a Vendor, i.e.. Microsoft? (All session 
tokens shall be user unique, non -
predictable, and resistant to reverse 
engineering.)   
 
25 Does the application store any cookies 
on client machines? If so, what are 
they? 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 44 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
26 Are cookies checked for validity when 
returned back to the server?  
 
27 Are sessions and/or cookies destroyed 
when the user logs out of the 
application? 
 
28 Does the application require re -
authentication for critical user actions 
such as money transfer? 
 
29 What security controls are built around 
files where userIDs, passwords, Pins, 
etc are stored? 
 
30 Are all authentication events (logging 
in, logging –out, failed logins, etc.) 
logged? 
 
31 Are all administrative events (account 
management actions, enabling or 
disabling logging, etc.) logged? 
 
32 Are logs written so only new records 
can be added, and existing records not 
overwritten or deleted? 
 
33 What client -side data validation is 
done? 
 
34 What data validation is done on the 
server side? (this shall be done even if 
it is redundant to cursory validation 
performed on the client side). 
 
35 How is editing done to prohibit generic 
meta-
characters from being present in 
input data?  
 
36 Are all database queries constructed 
with parameterized stored procedures 
to prevent SQL injection? 
 
37 Can any variables be used in script? If 
yes, how are they protected to prevent 
direct OS Commands attacks? 
 
38 What scripting language is being used? 
Has it been checked for vulnerabilities 
and have they been addressed?  
 
39 Does the application do security 
checking after UTF -8 decoding is 
completed?  
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 45 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
40 Have all comments been removed for 
any code passed to the browser? 
 
41 Can users see any debugging 
information on the client?  
 
42 Have all sample, test and unused files 
been removed from the production 
system? 
 
43 Are pages with personal data cached?  
44 Are forms submissions done using a 
POST request rather than a GET? 
 
45 Does IUSR and/or network services 
need write permissions to any folders?  
If so, which ones and why? 
 
46 Does IUSR and/or Network Service 
need read and/or write access to the 
registry beyond the defaults? 
 
47 Does your application require any 
shared folders? 
 
48 Are all your connection string 
information(passwords & user names) 
stored in the registry and not in the 
application? 
 
49 Does your application need parental 
paths on in the IIS server? 
 
50 Does your application use stored 
procedures for database interaction? 
 
51 Do you follow ADA guidelines in your 
presentation layers of your application? 
 
52 Does your application require any 3rd 
party software that is not a standard 
part of our Microsoft operating system? 
 
53 Does your web application adhere to a 
three layer architecture (Presentation, 
Business and Data)? 
 
System Security-involves the analysis of the overall operating systems and software used to support the applications 
software. 
# Question Response 
54 What research has been done for 
known security vulnerabilities? 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 46 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
55 Who installs Vendor- supplied security 
upgrades and patches? Are we up -to-
date? 
 
56 Have unnecessary services been 
removed or disabled? 
 
57 Has debugging mode on any web 
server been turned off for production?  
 
58 Are default accounts disabled and 
passwords changed from defaults?  
 
59 Does the data base user have limited 
abilities in being only able to run stored 
procedures or select?  
 
 
 
 
Data Security-encompasses both physically protecting the application data from unauthorized access as well as loss of 
data through mechanical/electrical failure or viruses 
# Question Response 
60 Is Authentication used at all times 
when accessing or making changes to 
data to ensure confidentiality? 
 
61 Is at least 128 -bit encryption used for 
any data transmitted over public 
networks?  
 
62 Are all FTP transmissions of data over 
insecure channels encrypted using PGP 
software? 
 
63 Is auditing activated and all access to 
data logged? 
 
64 What are the backup and archive 
procedures that will be used?  
 
65 What are the offsite storage 
requirements of backups and archives? 
 
66 Are backups encrypted if highly 
sensitive data is involved? 
 
67 What virus control software and 
detection procedures will be used to 
protect the data? 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 47 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
68 How is privacy maintained to ensure 
that customer’s personal data collected 
from electronic transmissions is 
protected from unauthorized 
transmissions?  
 
Network Security-.includes the physical/electrical links between the Desktop Client and the Host computer 
# Question Response 
69 What documents show the network 
environment with a diagram that shows 
all links and component parts? 
 
70 How is the LAN isolated from any 
network-connected device that does 
not have a valid business relationship 
with resources on the LAN? 
 
71 Are firewalls used between the LAN and 
the Internet to prevent untrusted 
networks from accessing the LAN? 
 
72 If public access to a server in the 
internal LAN is required, has the server 
been put on a separate LAN segment 
behind the firewall device typically 
referred to as the DMZ? 
 
73 Have intrusion detection systems been 
installed? 
 
74 How are they monitored for 
unauthorized access? 
 
Security Administration- involves the administration of the overall security plan 
# Question Response 
75 Who are the security administrators for 
the application? 
 
76 What functions do they provide?  
77 How are users provided with userIDs 
and passwords?  
 
78 Are passwords restricted from being 
distributed by telephone or unsecured 
electronic mail?   
 
79 How are unusual incidents handled?  

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 48 
 
 
Web-Enabled Application Security Questionnaire for:  Vendor Name    Date:      /      /                         
80 Have all employees or users of the 
application been instructed to exercise 
caution to prevent the release of 
sensitive details to unauthorized 
sources?  
 
Database Security:  involves the connections to the database 
# Question Response 
81 Do you pass SQL query information or 
hierarchy paths via the request objects? 
 
82 Does your application use server side  
validation for sensitive, financial, or 
authorization information input before 
disseminating, writing, updating or 
allowing access to the application or 
database? 
 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 49 
 
 
Architecture Document 
Vendor Name 
Date 
1. Introduction 
1.1. Add Text. 
2. Architecture Overview 
2.1. Add Text. 
2.2. Add diagram. 
3. Architectural Layers 
3.1. Add Text. 
3.2. Add diagram. 
4. Logical Architecture 
4.1. Add text. 
4.2. Add diagram. 
5. Deployment Architecture 
5.1. Add text. 
5.2. Add diagram. 
6. Disconnected Operations 
6.1. Add text. 
6.2. Add diagram. 
7. Security 
7.1. Add text. 
7.2. Add diagram. 
8. Microsoft Enterprise Library 
8.1. Add text. 
9. Operational Considerations 
9.1. Add text. 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 50 
 
 
5. COST SHEET 
 
Contractor Name:    
 
 
Cost proposals must be submitted separately from the Technical Proposal, unless otherwise specified. Bidders must 
complete the below cost proposal. The format and structure of the cost proposal is intended to allow for a 
quantitatively comparable evaluation among bidders. Deviation from the format or structure of this Cost Proposal may 
result in Bidder's proposal being deemed non-responsive. 
 
This RFP is contingent upon the availability of state or federal funds and may be terminated by thirty (30) day advance 
written notice by the Director of Purchases. 
 
A. Implementation Costs through Go-Live Date. 
 
Please provide a fixed price. The lines are to coincide with the deliverables/timeline schedule submitted in the 
Technical Proposal. The item may be a fixed cost. Please include a cost breakdown, including the additional cost 
for the requested add-on functionality. 
 
Item  Line-Item Cost 
Incident Management Functional Requirements  
Bed Availability and Resource Management Functional 
Requirements 
 
G1 Add-on API functionality  
TOTAL COST:  
 
 
B. Annual Costs for the remainder of the five-year contract period. Include cost for annual license and support fee.  
 
Annual costs Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 
Incident Management 
Functional Requirements 
     
Bed Availability and Resource 
Management Functional 
Requirements 
     
G1 Add-on API functionality      
 TOTAL COST:       
 
 
 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 51 
 
 
6. Contractual Provisions Attachment 
DA-146a Rev. 07/19 
6.1. Important 
The parties agree that the following provisions are hereby incorporated into the contract to which it is attached 
and made a part thereof, said contract being the date of final signature.  
6.2. Terms Herein Controlling Provisions 
It is expressly agreed that the terms of each and every provision in this attachment shall prevail and control 
over the terms of any other conflicting provision in any other document relating to and a part of the contract in 
which this attachment is incorporated. Any terms that conflict or could be interpreted to conflict with this 
attachment are nullified. 
6.3. Kansas Law and Venue 
This contract shall be subject to, governed by, and construed according to the laws of the State of Kansas, and 
jurisdiction and venue of any suit in connection with this contract shall reside only in courts located in the State 
of Kansas. 
6.4. Termination Due to Lack of Funding Appropriation 
If, in the judgment of the Director of Accounts and Reports, Department of Administration, sufficient funds are 
not appropriated to continue the function performed in this agreement and for the payment of the charges 
hereunder, State may terminate this agreement at the end of its current fiscal year. State agrees to give written 
notice of termination to contractor at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of its current fiscal year and shall give 
such notice for a greater period prior to the end of such fiscal year as may be provided in this contract, except 
that such notice shall not be required prior to ninety (90) days before the end of such fiscal year. Contractor 
shall have the right, at the end of such fiscal year, to take possession of any equipment provided State under 
the contract. State will pay to the contractor all regular contractual payments incurred through the end of such 
fiscal year, plus contractual charges incidental to the return of any such equipment. Upon termination of the 
agreement by State, title to any such equipment shall revert to contractor at the end of the State's current fiscal 
year. The termination of the contract pursuant to this paragraph shall not cause any penalty to be charged to 
the agency or the contractor. 
6.5. Disclaimer of Liability 
No provision of this contract will be given effect that attempts to require the State of Kansas or its agencies to 
defend, hold harmless, or indemnify any contractor or third party for any acts or omissions. The liability of the 
State of Kansas is defined under the Kansas Tort Claims Act (K.S.A. 75-6101, et seq.). 
6.6. Anti-Discrimination Clause 
The contractor agrees: (a) to comply with the Kansas Act Against Discrimination (K.S.A. 44 1001, et seq.) and 
the Kansas Age Discrimination in Employment Act (K.S.A. 44-1111, et seq.) and the applicable provisions of 
the Americans With Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101, et seq.) (ADA), and Kansas Executive Order No. 19- 02, 
and to not discriminate against any person because of race, color, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or 
expression, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, military or veteran status, disability status, marital or family 
status, genetic information, or political affiliation that is unrelated to the person's ability to reasonably perform 
the duties of a particular job or position; (b) to include in all solicitations or advertisements for employees, the 
phrase "equal opportunity employer"; (c) to comply with the reporting requirements set out at K.S.A. 44- 1031 
and K.S.A. 44-1116; (d) to include those provisions in every subcontract or purchase order so that they are 
binding upon such subcontractor or vendor; (e) that a failure to comply with the reporting requirements of (c) 
above or if the contractor is found guilty of any violation of such acts by the Kansas Human Rights Commission, 
such violation shall constitute a breach of contract and the contract may be cancelled, terminated or 
suspended, in whole or in part, by the contracting state agency or the Kansas Department of Administration; (f) 
Contractor agrees to comply with all applicable state and federal anti-discrimination laws and regulations; (g) 
Contractor agrees all hiring must be on the basis of individual merit and qualifications, and discrimination or 
harassment of persons for the reasons stated above is prohibited; and (h) if it is determined that the contractor 
has violated the provisions of any portion of this paragraph, such violation shall constitute a breach of contract 
and the contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended, in whole or in part, by the contracting state 
agency or the Kansas Department of Administration. 

 
Event ID:  EVT0010848 
Page 52 
 
 
6.7. Acceptance of Contract 
This contract shall not be considered accepted, approved or otherwise effective until the statutorily required 
approvals and certifications have been given. 
6.8. Arbitration, Damages, Warranties 
Notwithstanding any language to the contrary, no interpretation of this contract shall find that the State or its 
agencies have agreed to binding arbitration, or the payment of damages or penalties. Further, the State of 
Kansas and its agencies do not agree to pay attorney fees, costs, or late payment charges beyond those 
available under the Kansas Prompt Payment Act (K.S.A. 75-6403), and no provision will be given effect that 
attempts to exclude, modify, disclaim or otherwise attempt to limit any damages available to the State of 
Kansas or its agencies at law, including but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness 
for a particular purpose. 
6.9. Representative's Authority to Contract 
By signing this contract, the representative of the contractor thereby represents that such person is duly 
authorized by the contractor to execute this contract on behalf of the contractor and that the contractor agrees 
to be bound by the provisions thereof. 
6.10. Responsibility for Taxes 
The State of Kansas and its agencies shall not be responsible for, nor indemnify a contractor for, any federal, 
state or local taxes which may be imposed or levied upon the subject matter of this contract.  
6.11. Insurance 
The State of Kansas and its agencies shall not be required to purchase any insurance against loss or damage 
to property or any other subject matter relating to this contract, nor shall this contract require them to establish a 
"self-insurance" fund to protect against any such loss or damage. Subject to the provisions of the Kansas Tort 
Claims Act (K.S.A. 75-6101, et seq.), the contractor shall bear the risk of any loss or damage to any property in 
which the contractor holds title. 
6.12. Information 
No provision of this contract shall be construed as limiting the Legislative Division of Post Audit from having 
access to information pursuant to K.S.A. 46-1101, et seq. 
6.13. The Eleventh Amendment 
"The Eleventh Amendment is an inherent and incumbent protection with the State of Kansas and need not be 
reserved, but prudence requires the State to reiterate that nothing related to this contract shall be deemed a 
waiver of the Eleventh Amendment." 
6.14. Campaign Contributions / Lobbying 
Funds provided through a grant award or contract shall not be given or received in exchange for the making of 
a campaign contribution. No part of the funds provided through this contract shall be used to influence or 
attempt to influence an officer or employee of any State of Kansas agency or a member of the Legislature 
regarding any pending legislation or the awarding, extension, continuation, renewal, amendment or modification 
of any government contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. 